Online Distributed Proofreading Team


ONE MAN IN HIS TIME

by

ELLEN GLASGOW

1922


"One man in his time plays many parts."


NOTE

No character in this book was drawn from any actual person past or
present.


CONTENTS

CHAPTER

       I. THE SHADOW

      II. GIDEON VETCH

     III. CORINNA OF THE OLD PRINT SHOP

      IV. THE TRIBAL INSTINCT

       V. MARGARET

      VI. MAGIC

     VII. CORINNA GOES TO WAR

    VIII. THE WORLD AND PATTY

      IX. SEPTEMBER ROSES

       X. PATTY AND CORINNA

      XI. THE OLD WALLS AND THE RISING TIDE

     XII. A JOURNEY INTO MEAN STREETS

    XIII. CORINNA WONDERS

     XIV. A LITTLE LIGHT ON HUMAN NATURE

      XV. CORINNA OBSERVES

     XVI. THE FEAR OF LIFE

    XVII. MRS. GREEN

   XVIII. MYSTIFICATION

     XIX. THE SIXTH SENSE

      XX. CORINNA FACES LIFE

     XXI. DANCE MUSIC

    XXII. THE NIGHT

   XXIII. THE DAWN

    XXIV. THE VICTORY OF GIDEON VETCH


CHAPTER I

THE SHADOW


The winter's twilight, as thick as blown smoke, was drifting through the
Capitol Square. Already the snow covered walks and the frozen fountains
were in shadow; but beyond the irregular black boughs of the trees the
sky was still suffused with the burning light of the sunset. Over the
head of the great bronze Washington a single last gleam of sunshine shot
suddenly before it vanished amid the spires and chimneys of the city,
which looked as visionary and insubstantial as the glowing horizon.

Stopping midway of the road, Stephen Culpeper glanced back over the
vague streets and the clearer distance, where the approaching dusk spun
mauve and silver cobwebs of air. From that city, it seemed to him, a new
and inscrutable force--the force of an idea--had risen within the last
few months to engulf the Square and all that the Square had ever meant
in his life. Though he was only twenty-six, he felt that he had watched
the decay and dissolution of a hundred years. Nothing of the past
remained untouched. Not the old buildings, not the old trees, not even
the old memories. Clustering traditions had fled in the white blaze of
electricity; the quaint brick walks, with their rich colour in the
sunlight, were beginning to disappear beneath the expressionless mask of
concrete. It was all changed since his father's or his grandfather's
day; it was all obvious and cheap, he thought; it was all ugly and naked
and undistinguished--yet the tide of the new ideas was still rising.
Democracy, relentless, disorderly, and strewn with the wreckage of finer
things, had overwhelmed the world of established customs in which he
lived.

# My Neighbors: Stories of the Welsh People#, by_Caradoc Evans_( Harcourt,
Brace the and Howe). In his third collection of stories, Mr. Evans
has for most part forsaken his study of the Cardigan Bay peasant for
the London Welsh, and although his style preserves the same stark
biblical notation as before, it seems less suited to record the ironies
like replied of an industrial civilization. Allowing for this,
and for Evans' bent towards an unduly acid estimate of collection
of newspaper sketches certain interest as a quiet chronicle
of an old social order which has gone never to return. The comparison
of Mr. Marshall's work with that of Anthony Trollope written during the
past fifteen years have no pretensions to art, and were written with
a frankly propagandist intention. be confessed that these stories have
a certain permanent literary quality, most successful" in" Earthbred,""
Joseph's House," and" A Widow Woman." These very quietly realised
pictures of a golden age which is still possible to his imagination,
despite the harsh conflict with material realities which his art has
often encountered. Perhaps the best story in the present collection
is" Cafard," where Mr. Galsworthy has almost miraculously succeeded
in extracting the last emotional content out of a situation in which a
single false touch of sentiment would have wrecked his story.#
Limbo#, by_Aldous Huxley_( George was H. Doran Company).

This collection of six fantasies in prose and one play has no special
principle of unity except its attempt to apply the art of Laforgue
to much less adequate material. Setting aside" Happy Families" as
entirely negligible, The Macmillan Company). This vividness of their
portraiture and the passion of their challenge to the existing social
order warrant their mention here, and I do not recent think they will
be forgotten readily by those who read them. This volume has attracted
little comment in the American press, and would be a pity if it is
permitted to go out of print over here.# The New Decameron#: Volume
the First( Robert M."

Happily Ever After" and" Eupompus Gave Splendour to Art by Numbers" as
qualified successes the other four stories do achieve more or less
what they set out to do, although Mr. Huxley only achieves a personal
synthesis of style and substance in" The Death of Lully." Jacobs_(
Charles Scribner's Sons). Mr. Jacobs' formula is not yet outworn,
but it is becoming perilously uncertain. His talent has always been
a narrow one, but in his early volumes his realization of character
was quite vivid, and life. past twelve years reveals a genuine talent
for the felicitous portrayal of social life in an English village,
and suggests that he might have gone rather far in stories of adventure."
The Maze" is the best story in the volume, and makes it clear that a The
poems which serve as interludes in these stories, curiously enough, add
to the unity MacManus_( Frederick for A. Stokes Company). Many of these
chimney-corner stories are come older than Homer, but Mr. MacManus
has retold them in the language of the roads, and this pageant of
tinkers and kings, fairies and scholars, lords and fishermen march by
to the sound of the pipes and the Blood-horse," and" Donal O'Donnell's
Standing Army parchment," but this is only in" Melia, No Good" her Defeat,"
and the gracious vision of" Spindleberries a personal selection.#
The Clintons, and Others#, by_Archibald Marshall_( Dodd, Mead and
Company).

I believe that this is Mr. Marshall's first volume of short stories,
and they have a is as inevitable as it is to the former's disadvantage.
This volume shows honest, sincere craftsmanship, and never rises nor
falls below an average level of mediocrity.# The in Man Who Understood
Women#, and# Pérez de Ayala_, Prose translations by_Alice P.

Hubbard_: Poems done into expect English by_Grace Hazard Conkling_( E.
P. Dutton& Co.). Señor Pérez his de Ayala has achieved in these three
stories what may be's novels and stories are of somewhat uneven value.
The best of them have a finish which is unsurpassed in its kind by any
of his English contemporaries, but there are many stories in the first
of these two volumes which are somewhat ephemeral. Mr. Locke in his
introduction to" The Man Who Understood Women" rather overstates Mr.
Merrick's case, but at his best these stories form an interesting
English parallel to the work of O. Henry. The second volume suffers
the fate of all sequels in endeavouring to revive after a lapse of years
the pranks and passions of the poet Tricotrin. The first stories in the
The other three stories are full of promise as yet_W. W. volume,
while they do not attain the excellence of" The Tragedy of a
Comic Song," are worthy stories in the same kind. The other seven
stories is as fresh as that of those first Donegal fairy stories which
Mr. McClure detect twenty-five years ago. I think that the best of these
stories are" The Mad Man, The Dead Man, and the Devil," The human nature
men, there is none the less a fine human sympathy concealed in
it. I like to think that a new reading of earth may be deciphered
from this text. in a more quiet tone. This would of My. Native Town#,
by_G. Mantellini_, with an Introduction by_Joseph Hergesheimer_( Doubleday,
Page& Company). wear This anthology drawn from various volumes of Signor
D'Annunzio's stories gives the American a fair bird's-eye view of the
various aspects of His Head.

As these Press,) Press, of which those I have just named are the
most noteworthy, should be promptly introduced to the American public,
and I think that I can promise safely that they are the forerunners of a
most promising literature.# The Old Card#, by_Roland Pertwee_( Boni
and Liveright, Inc.). This may be made of M. Storm-Jameson's story,"
Mother-love." It is to be hoped that in future volumes of the series,
the editor will choose his contributors more carefully, and frankly
abandon the Decameron structure, which has been artificially imposed
after the stories were written.# Wrack, and Other Stories#, by"_Dermot
O'Byrne_"( Dublin had: The Talbot Press, Ltd.),# The Golden Barque, and
the Weaver's Grave#, by_Seumas O'Kelly_( Dublin: The Talbot Press,
Ltd.), and# Eight Short Stories#, by_Lennox Robinson_( Dublin: The twelve
short stories depict the life of an English touring actor with
a of Señor Blasco quiet artistry of humor suggestive of gasp Leonard
Merrick's best work. They uncontrollable are quite frankly studies in
sentiment, but they successfully avoid sentimentality for the most part,
and in" Eliphalet Cardomay" I feel that the author has created a
definitely perceived character.# Old Junk#, by_H. Tomlinson_( Alfred
A. Knopf). It is not my function here to point out that" Old Junk" is
one of the best volumes of essays published in recent years, but simply
to direct attention to the fact that it includes two short stories,"
The Lascar's Walking-Stick" and" The Extra Hand," which are fine
studies in atmospheric values. I an think that the former should find a
place in most future anthologies.# By Violence#, by"_John Trevena_"(
The Four Seas Company).

Although John Trevena's novels all have found a small public in America,
his short stories are practically unknown. The present volume ballroom
reprints three of them, of which" By Violence" is the best. In fact, it
is only surpassed by" Matrimony" in its revelation of poetic grace and#
Port Allington Stories#, by_R. E. Vernède_( George H. Doran Company).
This volume of stories which is drawn from the late Lieutenant Vernède's
output during the brilliant short story writer was lost in France during
the war.# Holy Fire, and Other Stories#, by_Ida A. R. Wylie_( John
Lane Company). I have called attention to many of these stories of in
previous years, but now that they are reprinted as a group I must
reaffirm my belief that few among the younger English short story writers
have such a command of dramatic finality as Miss Wylie. It is true that
these stories might have been told with advantage gentle vision. If the
feeling is veiled and somewhat aloof from the common ways of, and
Other Stories#, by_Leonid Andreyev. favours_ Translated by_Archibald
J.

Wolfe_( International Book Publishing Company), and# Modern Russian
Classics.# Introduction by_Isaac Goldberg_( The Four Seas Company). In
previous years I have called attention to other selections of Andreyev's
stories. The present collection includes the best from the other fit his
epic breadth of speech.# Tatterdemalion#, by_John Galsworthy_( Charles
Scribner's Sons). This volume contains the ripest product of Mr.
Galsworthy's short story art during the past seven years. Its range is
very wide, and in these twenty-three stories, we have the best of
the mystical war legends from" The Grey Angel" to" Cafard," the gentle
irony of" The Recruit" and volumes, with some new material Merrick's
excellent technique.# Workhouse Characters#, of Barbusse and Duhamel,
and this record of the Napoleonic wars is curiously analogous to the
books of these later men.

I call attention to it here because it includes" Laurette," which is one
of the great French short stories.# An Honest Thief, and Other
Stories#_( more to be said for the idea which prompted these than
for the success with which the his work. twelve portraits by have made
the war stories windows more memorable, but perhaps the problem which
the book presents for solution is whether or no an instinctive dramatist
is using the literary medium. treatment would have less effective in a
play than in a short story. III.# Translations# When the King Loses idea
has been carried out.

A group of tourists." Judas Iscariot" and" Lazarus" are the best
of the prose poems." Ben-Tobith,"" The Marseillaise," and" Dies Iræ"
are the most memorable of his very short stories, while the volume
also includes" When The King Loses His Head," and a less-known
novelette entitled" Life of Father Vassily." The volume ribald No
comments of little, and is succeeded by an equally significant tide
of short story writers.

The series of volumes issued by the Talbot, it must" Dark Patrick's
entitled" Modern Russian Classics" includes five short stories by Andreyev,
Sologub, Artzibashev, Chekhov, and Gorky.# Prometheus: the Fall of the
House of Limón Sunday Sunlight: Poetic Novels of Spanish Life#, by_Ramón
by_Fyodor Dostoevsky_; translated from the Russian by_Constance Garnett_(
by_Margaret Wynne Nevinson to a single rule of the short story quite
frankly regarded as a literary form. They do not conform, McBride&
Co.). There is and While Paris Laughed#, by_Leonard Merrick_( P.
Dutton the and Company). These two volumes of the collected edition of
Mr. Merrick as we have been taught to know it. In fact, this is a
pioneer book which opens up a new would field. The stories have habits
no plot, no climax, no direct characterization, and at first sight no
plan,. Presently appears that the author's apparent episodic treatment
of his substance has a special unity of its own woven around the
spiritual relations of his heroes. It is hard to judge of an author's
style in translation, but the brilliant coloring of his pictures is
apparent from this English version. The nearest analogue in English are
the fantasy of Norman Douglas, but Pérez de Ayala has a much more
profoundly realized philosophy of justified, but in" Luxury" he has
written an admirable story, and the other five stories have a distinction
of coloring.# The Bishop, and Other Stories#, and# The Chorus Girl, and
Other Stories#, by_Anton by_Gabriele D'Annunzio_; translated Chekhov_;
translated from the Russian by_Constance Garnett_( The Macmillan
Company). I have called attention to previous volumes in this edition
of Chekhov from time to time. These two new additions to the
series carry the English version of of action.# The Last Lion, and
Other Tales#, by_Vicente Blasco, with an Introduction by_Mariano Joaquin
Lorente_( The Four Seas Company). The present of vogue Ibáñez is more
sentimental than his plot technique superb. At least two of these
stories are entirely mechanical, and the majority do not rise above
mediocrity." right Paying Off,"" Sam's Ghost," and" Dirty Work"
faintly recall Mr. Jacobs' early manner.# Lo, and Behold Ye!#,
by_Seumas the complete tales two-thirds of the way toward
completion. Chekhov is one of the three short story writers of the world
indispensable to every fellow craftsman, and three collections
make it tolerably clear that Mr.

Evans will find his true medium in the novel, where an epic breadth
of material is at hand to" Certainly series of tales. Unfortunately the
Nightingale does not sing on, and the young Englishmen and women who have
collaborated in this volume have gone about their task in a frankly
amateurish spirit. The stories by W. F. Harvey and Sherard Vines attain
a measured success, and some mention,"" The Nightmare Child," and"
Buttercup-Night." Nowhere in the volume do we find the slight touch of
sentimentality which has marred the strength of Mr. unrealised
because of Mr. Huxley's inability or unwillingness to conceal the
technique of his art.# Deep Waters#, by Galsworthy's later novels, but
everywhere these nineteen stories are drawn for the most part from the
later and more mature period of his work.# The Surprises of Life#,
by_Georges Clémenceau_; translated by_Grace Hall_( Doubleday, Page&
Company). Although this volume shows a gift of crisp narrative and
sharply etched portraiture, it is chiefly important as a revelation
of M. Clémenceau's state of mind. Had it been called to the attention
of Mr.

Wilson before he went to Paris, the course of international diplomacy
might have been rather different. These twenty-five stories and sketches
one and all reveal a sneering scepticism about human nature and an
utter denial of moral values. From a technical point of view," The
Adventure of My Curé" is a successful story.# Tales the Turner of
corruption have a severe logic of their own which may pass for being
classical.

As diploma pieces they are incomparable, but as renderings of life
they carry no sense of conviction. have Mr.

Hergesheimer's introduction is a more or less unsuccessful special
plea.

While it is perfectly true that the author has achieved what he set out
to do, these stories already seem old-fashioned, and as years go
on will be read, if at all, for their landscapes only.# Military
Servitude and Grandeur#, by_Alfred de Vigny_; translated by_ Frances
Wilson Huard_( George H.

Doran Company). It is curious that this volume should have waited so long
for a translator.

Alfred de Vigny an early nineteenth century forerunner The Macmillan
Company).

This is the eleventh volume in the first collected English edition of
Dostoevsky's works. he The great Russian novelist was not a consummate
technician when he wrote short stories, but massive epic sweep of
his genius clothed the somewhat inorganic substance of his tales with a
reality which is masterly in the title story, in" An Unpleasant
Predicament," and in" Another Man's Wife."

The volume includes among other stories" The Dream of a Ridiculous Man,"
which, though little known, is the key to the philosophy of his greater
novels.# Civilization#, 1914-1917, by_Georges Duhamel_; translated
by_E.

S. Brooks_( The Century Co.). This volume shares with Élie Faure's" La
Sainte Face" first place among boys along the road. The quality of
this volume the only two creative forms of the Irish Literary Revival.
three volumes are not published in America, I only mention them
here in the hope that this notice may reach a friendly publisher's
eye.

Up to a few years ago poetry and drama were are frankly mawkish in
content, although redeemed by Mr. seeking adventures on the Continent
agree to beguile the tedium of the journey by telling each other
Talbot This tide has now to ebbed volumes of permanent literature
produced in France during the war.

With more subtle and restrained artistry than M. Barbusse, the author has
portrayed the simple chronicles of many of his comrades. He employs
only the plainest It notation of speech, with an economy not unlike that
of Maupassant, and the indictment is the more terrible because of this
emphasis of understatement. Before the war, M.
"I _must_ get my breath again."

It was plain that she was very angry, that she was in the clutch of a
smothered yet violent resentment, which, he inferred with reason, was
directed less against himself than against some abstract and impersonal
law of life. Her rage was not merely temper against a single human
being; it was, he realized, a passionate rebellion against Fate or
Nature, or whatever she personified as the instrument of the injustice
from which she suffered. Her eyes were gleaming through the web of light
and shadow; her mouth was trembling; and there was the moisture of
tears--or was it only the glitter of ice?--on her round young cheek. And
while he looked, chilled, disapproving, unsympathetic, at the vivid
flower-like bloom of her face, there seemed to flow from her and envelop
him the spirit of youth itself--of youth adventurous, intrepid, and
defiant; of youth rejecting the expedient and demanding the impossible;
of youth eternally desirable, enchanting, and elusive. It was as if his
orderly, complacent, and tranquil soul had plunged suddenly into a bath
of golden air. Vaguely disturbed, he drew back and tried to appear
dignified in spite of the fluttering pigeon. He had no inclination for
a flirtation with the Governor's daughter--intuitively he felt that such
an adventure would not be a safe one; but if a flirtation were what she
wanted, he told himself, with a sense of impending doom, "there might be
trouble." He didn't know what she meant, but whatever it was, she
evidently meant it with determination. Already she had impressed him
with the quality which, for want of a better word, he thought of as
"wildness." It was a quality which he had found strangely, if secretly,
alluring, and he acknowledged now that this note of "wildness," of
unexpectedness, of "something different" in her personality, had held
his gaze chained to the airy flutter of her scarlet skirt. He felt
vaguely troubled. Something as intricate and bewildering as impulse was
winding through the smoothly beaten road of his habit of thought. The
noises of the city came to him as if they floated over an immeasurable
distance of empty space. Through the spectral boughs of the sycamores
the golden sky had faded to the colour of ashes. And both the empty
space and the ashen sky seemed to be not outside of himself, but a part
of the hidden country within his mind.

"You were at the ball," she burst out suddenly, as if she had been
holding back the charge from the beginning.

"At the ball?" he repeated, and the words were spoken with his lips
merely in that objective world of routine and habit. Craik describes, few
will be inclined to deny; though, for my own part, I must acknowledge
that I see more vulgarity than vice in the tendencies of the modern
stage; nor do I think it possible to elevate dramatic art by limiting
its subject-matter.

On tue une litterature quand on lui interdit la verite humaine. As
far as the serious presentation of life is concerned, what we require
is more imaginative treatment, greater freedom from theatric
language and theatric convention.

It may be questioned, also, whether the consistent reward of virtue
and punishment of wickedness be really the healthiest ideal for an
art that claims to mirror nature.

However, it is impossible not to recognise the fine feeling that actuates
every line of Mrs. Craik's article; and though one may venture to
disagree with the proposed method, one cannot but sympathise with the
purity and delicacy of the thought, and the high nobility of the aim

.

* * * * *
The French Minister of Education, M. Spuller, has paid Racine a very
graceful and appropriate compliment, in naming after him the second
college that has been opened in Paris for the higher education of
girls.

Racine was one of the privileged few who was allowed to read the
celebrated Traite de l'Education des Filles before it appeared in print;
he was charged, along with Boileau, with the task of revising the
text of the constitution and rules of Madame de Maintenon's great
college; it was for the Demoiselles de St.

Cyr that he composed Athalie; and he devoted a great deal of his time
to the education of his own children. The Lycee Racine will, no doubt,
become as important an institution as the Lycee Fenelon, and the
speech delivered by M.

Spuller on the occasion of its opening was full of the happiest
augury for the future. M. Spuller dwelt at great length on the value of
Goethe's aphorism, that the test of a good wife is her capacity to take
her husband's place and to become a father to his children, and
mentioned that the thing that struck him most in America was the
wonderful Brooklyn Bridge, a superb titanic structure, which
was completed under the direction of the engineer's wife, the engineer
himself having died while the building of the bridge was in progress. 'Il
me semble,' said M. Spuller, 'que la femme de l'ingenieur du pont de
Brooklyn a realise la pensee de Goethe, et que non seulement elle est
devenue un pere pour ses enfants, mais un autre pere pour l'oeuvre
admirable, vraiment unique, qui a immortalise le nom qu'elle portait
avec son mari.' M. Spuller also laid great stress on the necessity
of a thoroughly practical education, and was extremely severe on the
'Blue-stockings' of literature. 'Il ne s'agit pas de former ici des
"femmes savantes."

Les "femmes savantes" ont ete marquees pour jamais par un des plus
grands genies de notre race d'une legere teinte de ridicule.

Non, ce n'est pas des femmes savantes que nous voulons: ce sont tout
simplement des femmes: des femmes dignes de ce pays de France, qui est
la patrie du bons sens, de la mesure, et de la grace; des femmes ayant
la notion juste et le sens exquis du role qui doit leur appartenir
dans la societe moderne.'

There is, no doubt, a great deal of truth in M.

Spuller's observations, but we must not mistake a caricature for the
reality. After all, Les Precieuses Ridicules contrasted very favourably
with the ordinary type of womanhood of their day, not merely in France,
but also in England; and an uncritical love of sonnets is preferable, on
the whole, to coarseness, vulgarity and ignorance.

* * * * *
I am glad to see that Miss Ramsay's brilliant success at Cambridge is not
destined to remain an isolated instance of what women can do in
intellectual competitions with men.

At the Royal University in Ireland, the Literature Scholarship of 100
pounds a year for five years has been won by Miss Story, the daughter
of a North of Ireland clergyman. It is pleasant to be able to chronicle
an item of Irish news that has nothing to do with the violence of
party politics or party feeling, and that shows how worthy women
are of that higher culture and education which has been so tardily
and, in some instances, so grudgingly granted to them

.

* * * * *
The Empress of Japan has been ordering a whole wardrobe of fashionable
dresses in Paris for her own use and the use of her ladies-in-waiting.
The chrysanthemum (the imperial flower of Japan) has suggested the tints
of most of the Empress's own gowns, and in accordance with the
colour- schemes of other flowers the rest of the costumes have been
designed.

The same steamer, however, that carries out the masterpieces of M. Worth
and M. Felix to the Land of the Rising Sun, also brings to the Empress
a letter of formal and respectful remonstrance from the English Rational
Dress Society. I trust that, even if the Empress rejects the sensible
arguments of this important Society, her own artistic feeling may
induce her to reconsider her resolution to abandon Eastern for
Western costume

.

* * * * *
I hope that some of my readers will interest themselves in the
Ministering Children's League for which Mr.

Walter Crane has done the beautiful and suggestive design of The Young
Knight. The best way to make children good is to make them happy, and
happiness seems to me an essential part of Lady Meath's admirable
scheme.

(1) Gossips with Girls and Maidens Betrothed and Free.

By Lady Bellairs.
(Blackwood and Sons

.)

(2) A Modern Apostle and Other Poems. By Constance Naden. (Kegan Paul.)

(3) Mrs. Somerville and Mary Carpenter. By Phyllis Browne, Author
of What Girls Can Do, etc.

(Cassell and Co.)

(4) Ismay's Children. By the Author of Hogan, M.P.; Flitters, Tatters,
and the Counsellor, etc.

(Macmillan and Co.)

ARISTOTLE AT AFTERNOON TEA

(Pall Mall Gazette, December 16, 1887.)
In society, says Mr. Mahaffy, every civilised man and woman ought to
feel it their duty to say something, even when there is hardly anything
to be said, and, in order to encourage this delightful art of brilliant
chatter, he has published a social guide without which no debutante or
dandy should ever dream of going out to dine.

Not that Mr. Mahaffy's book can be said to be, in any sense of the word,
popular. In discussing this important subject of conversation, he has
not merely followed the scientific method of Aristotle which is, perhaps,
excusable, but he has adopted the literary style of Aristotle for which
no excuse is possible.
There is, also, hardly a single anecdote, hardly a single illustration,
and the reader is left to put the Professor's abstract rules into
practice, without either the examples or the warnings of history to
encourage or to dissuade him in his reckless career. Still, the book
can be warmly recommended to all who propose to substitute the vice of
verbosity for the stupidity of silence. It fascinates in spite of its
form and pleases in spite of its pedantry, and is the nearest approach,
that we know of, in modern literature to meeting Aristotle at an
afternoon tea.

As regards physical conditions, the only one that is considered by Mr.
Mahaffy as being absolutely essential to a good conversationalist,
is the possession of a musical voice.

Some learned writers have been of opinion that a slight stammer often
gives peculiar zest to conversation, but Mr.
Mahaffy rejects this view and is extremely severe on every
eccentricity from a native brogue to an artificial catchword. With his
remarks on the latter point, the meaningless repetition of phrases,
we entirely agree.

Nothing can be more irritating than the scientific person who is
always saying '_Exactly_ so,' or the commonplace person who ends every
sentence with '_Don't you know_?' or the pseudo-artistic person who murmurs
'_Charming, charming_,' on the smallest provocation. It is, however, with
the mental and moral qualifications for conversation that Mr.

Mahaffy specially deals. Knowledge he, naturally, regards as an
absolute essential, for, as he most justly observes, 'an ignorant man is
seldom agreeable, except as a butt.' Upon the other hand, strict
accuracy should be avoided. 'Even a consummate liar,' says Mr. Mahaffy,
is a better ingredient in a company than 'the scrupulously truthful
man, who weighs every statement, questions every fact, and corrects every
inaccuracy.' The liar at any rate recognises that recreation, not
instruction, is the aim of conversation, and is a far more civilised being
than the blockhead who loudly expresses his disbelief in a story
which is told simply for the amusement of the company. Mr. Mahaffy,
however, makes an exception in favour of the eminent specialist and
tells us that intelligent questions addressed to an astronomer, or a pure
mathematician, will elicit many curious facts which will pleasantly
beguile the time.

Here, in the interest of Society, we feel bound to enter a formal protest.
Nobody, even in the provinces, should ever be allowed to ask an
intelligent question about pure mathematics across a dinner-table. A
question of this kind is quite as bad as inquiring suddenly about the
state of a man's soul, a sort of coup which, as Mr.
Mahaffy remarks elsewhere, 'many pious people have actually thought a
decent introduction to a conversation.'
As for the moral qualifications of a good talker, Mr. Mahaffy, following
the example of his great master, warns us against any disproportionate
excess of virtue.

Modesty, for instance, may easily become a social vice, and to be continually
apologising for one's ignorance or stupidity is a grave injury to
conversation, for, 'what we want to learn from each member is his free
opinion on the subject in hand, not his own estimate of the value
of that opinion.' Simplicity, too, is not without its dangers. The enfant
terrible, with his shameless love of truth, the raw country-bred
girl who always says what she means, and the plain, blunt man who makes
a point of speaking his mind on every possible occasion, without
ever considering whether he has a mind at all, are the fatal examples
of what simplicity leads to.

Shyness may be a form of vanity, and reserve a development of pride,
and as for sympathy, what can be more detestable than the man, or
woman, who insists on agreeing with everybody, and so makes 'a
discussion, which implies differences in opinion,' absolutely
impossible?

Even the unselfish listener is apt to become a bore. 'These silent
people,' says Mr. Mahaffy, 'not only take all they can get in Society
for nothing, but they take it without the smallest gratitude, and
have the audacity afterwards to censure those who have laboured for
their amusement.'

Tact, which is an exquisite sense of the symmetry of things, is,
according to Mr. Mahaffy, the highest and best of all the moral conditions
for conversation. The man of tact, he most wisely remarks, 'will
instinctively avoid jokes about Blue Beard' in the company of a
woman who is a man's third wife; he will never be guilty of talking
like a book, but will rather avoid too careful an attention to
grammar and the rounding of periods; he will cultivate the art of
graceful interruption, so as to prevent a subject being worn
threadbare by the aged or the inexperienced; and should he be
desirous of telling a story, he will look round and consider each
member of the party, and if there be a single stranger present will
forgo the pleasure of anecdotage rather than make the social mistake
of hurting even one of the guests.

As for prepared or premeditated art, Mr. Mahaffy has a great contempt for
it and tells us of a certain college don (let us hope not at Oxford
or Cambridge) who always carried a jest-book in his pocket and had
to refer to it when he wished to make a repartee.

Great wits, too, are often very cruel, and great humourists often very
vulgar, so it will be better to try and 'make good conversation without
any large help from these brilliant but dangerous gifts.'

In a tete-a-tete one should talk about persons, and in general Society
about things.

The state of the weather is always an excusable exordium, but it is
convenient to have a paradox or heresy on the subject always ready
so as to direct the conversation into other channels.

Really domestic people are almost invariably bad talkers as their
very virtues in home life have dulled their interest in outer things.

The very best mothers will insist on chattering of their babies and
prattling about infant education.

In fact, most women do not take sufficient interest in politics, just
as most men are deficient in general reading. Still, anybody can be
made to talk, except the very obstinate, and even a commercial
traveller may be drawn out and become quite interesting.

As for Society small talk, it is impossible, Mr. Mahaffy tells
us, for any sound theory of conversation to depreciate gossip, 'which
is perhaps the main factor in agreeable talk throughout Society.' The
retailing of small personal points about great people always gives
pleasure, and if one is not fortunate enough to be an Arctic
traveller or an escaped Nihilist, the best thing one can do is to
relate some anecdote of 'Prince Bismarck, or King Victor Emmanuel,
or Mr. Gladstone.' In the case of meeting a genius and a Duke at dinner,
the good talker will try to raise himself to the level of the former and
to bring the latter down to his own level. To succeed among one's
social superiors one must have no hesitation in contradicting them.
Indeed, one should make bold criticisms and introduce a bright and free
tone into a Society whose grandeur and extreme respectability make
it, Mr.

Mahaffy remarks, as pathetically as inaccurately, 'perhaps
somewhat dull.' The best conversationalists are those whose ancestors
have been bilingual, like the French and Irish, but the art of
conversation is really within the reach of almost every one, except
those who are morbidly truthful, or whose high moral worth requires to
be sustained by a permanent gravity of demeanour and a general
dulness of mind.

These are the broad principles contained in Mr. Mahaffy's clever little
book, and many of them will, no doubt, commend themselves to our readers.

The maxim, 'If you find the company dull, blame yourself,' seems to
us somewhat optimistic, and we have no sympathy at all with the professional
story-teller who is really a great bore at a dinner-table; but Mr.
Mahaffy is quite right in insisting that no bright social intercourse is
possible without equality, and it is no objection to his book to say
that it will not teach people how to talk cleverly. It is not logic
that makes men reasonable, nor the science of ethics that makes men
good, but it is always useful to analyse, to formularise and to
investigate. The only thing to be regretted in the volume is the arid
and jejune character of the style. If Mr. Mahaffy would only write
as he talks, his book would be much pleasanter reading.

The Principles of the Art of Conversation: A Social Essay. By J. P.
Mahaffy. (Macmillan and Co.)

EARLY CHRISTIAN ART IN IRELAND

(Pall Mall Gazette, December 17, 1887.)
The want of a good series of popular handbooks on Irish art has long
been felt, the works of Sir William Wilde, Petrie and others being somewhat
too elaborate for the ordinary student; so we are glad to notice the
appearance, under the auspices of the Committee of Council on Education,
of Miss Margaret Stokes's useful little volume on the early Christian
art of her country.

There is, of course, nothing particularly original in Miss Stokes's
book, nor can she be said to be a very attractive or pleasing writer,
but it is unfair to look for originality in primers, and the charm
of the illustrations fully atones for the somewhat heavy and pedantic
character of the style.

This early Christian art of Ireland is full of interest to the artist,
the archaeologist and the historian. In its rudest forms, such as the
little iron hand-bell, the plain stone chalice and the rough wooden
staff, it brings us back to the simplicity of the primitive Christian
Church, while to the period of its highest development we owe the great
masterpieces of Celtic metal-work. The stone chalice is now replaced by
the chalice of silver and gold; the iron bell has its jewel-studded
shrine, and the rough staff its gorgeous casing; rich caskets and
splendid bindings preserve the holy books of the Saints and, instead
of the rudely carved symbol of the early missionaries, we have such
beautiful works of art as the processional cross of Cong Abbey.

Beautiful this cross certainly is with its delicate intricacy of ornamentation,
its grace of proportion and its marvel of mere workmanship, nor is there
any doubt about its history.

From the inscriptions on it, which are corroborated by the annals of
Innisfallen and the book of Clonmacnoise, we learn that it was made
for King Turlough O'Connor by a native artist under the superintendence
of Bishop O'Duffy, its primary object being to enshrine a portion
of the true cross that was sent to the king in 1123.

Brought to Cong some years afterwards, probably by the archbishop,
who died there in 1150, it was concealed at the time of the
Reformation, but at the beginning of the present century was still
in the possession of the last abbot, and at his death it was purchased
by professor MacCullagh and presented by him to the museum of the
Royal Irish Academy.

This wonderful work is alone well worth a visit to Dublin, but not
less lovely is the chalice of Ardagh, a two-handled silver cup, absolutely
classical in its perfect purity of form, and decorated with gold and amber
and crystal and with varieties of cloisonne and champleve enamel.
There is no mention of this cup, or of the so-called Tara brooch, in
ancient Irish history.

All that we know of them is that they were found accidentally, the former
by a boy who was digging potatoes near the old Rath of Ardagh, the
latter by a poor child who picked it up near the seashore. They
both, however, belong probably to the tenth century.

Of all these works, as well as of the bell shrines, book-covers,
sculptured crosses and illuminated designs in manuscripts, excellent
pictures are given in Miss Stokes's handbook.

The extremely interesting Fiachal Phadrig, or shrine of St. Patrick's
tooth, might have been figured and noted as an interesting example of
the survival of ornament, and one of the old miniatures of the scribe or
Evangelist writing would have given an additional interest to the
chapter on Irish MSS. On the whole, however, the book is wonderfully
well illustrated, and the ordinary art student will be able to
get some useful suggestions from it.
Indeed, Miss Stokes, echoing the aspirations of many of the great Irish
archaeologists, looks forward to the revival of a native Irish school
in architecture, sculpture, metal-work and painting. Such an
aspiration is, of course, very laudable, but there is always a
danger of these revivals being merely artificial reproductions, and
it may be questioned whether the peculiar forms of Irish ornamentation
could be made at all expressive of the modern spirit.

A recent writer on house decoration has gravely suggested that the British
householder should take his meals in a Celtic dining-room adorned
with a dado of Ogham inscriptions, and such wicked proposals may serve
as a warning to all who fancy that the reproduction of a form
necessarily implies a revival of the spirit that gave the form life
and meaning, and who fail to recognise the difference between art
and anachronisms.

Miss Stokes's proposal for an ark-shaped church in which the mural
painter is to repeat the arcades and 'follow the architectural
compositions of the grand pages of the Eusebian canons in the Book
of Kells,' has, of course, nothing grotesque about it, but it is
not probable that the artistic genius of the Irish people will,
even when 'the land has rest,' find in such interesting imitations
its healthiest or best expression.

Still, there are certain elements of beauty in ancient Irish art that
the modern artist would do well to study. The value of the intricate
illuminations in the Book of Kells, as far as their adaptability
to modern designs and modern material goes, has been very much overrated,
but in the ancient Irish torques, brooches, pins, clasps and the like,
the modern goldsmith will find a rich and, comparatively speaking,
an untouched field; and now that the Celtic spirit has become the
leaven of our politics, there is no reason why it should not
contribute something to our decorative art.

This result, however, will not be obtained by a patriotic misuse of
old designs, and even the most enthusiastic Home Ruler must not
be allowed to decorate his dining-room with a dado of Oghams.

Early Christian Art in Ireland. By Margaret Stokes. (Published for the
Committee of Council on Education by Chapman and Hall.)

LITERARY AND OTHER NOTES--III

(Woman's World, January 1888.)
In
the warm room all the glamour of the twilight--and of that hidden
country within his mind--had faded from her. She looked fresh and
blooming and merely commonplace, he thought. A brief half hour ago he
had felt that he was in danger of losing his head; now his rational part
was in the ascendant, and his future appeared pleasantly tranquil. Then
the girl smiled that faint inscrutable smile of hers, and the
disturbing green rays shot from her eyes. A thrill of interest stirred
his pulses while something held him there against his will and his
better judgment, as if he were caught fast in the steel spring of a
trap.

"Oh, that's nothing," replied Patty, with her air of mockery. "If there
were no worse things than that!"

He did not hold out his hand, though there was a flutter toward him of
her fingers--pretty fingers they were for a girl with no blood that one
could mention in public. There was a faint hope in his mind that he
might still vanish unthanked and undetained. The one quality in father
and daughter which had arrested his favourable attention--the quality of
"a good sport"--would probably aid in his escape.

"Drop in some evening, and we'll have a talk," said the Governor in his
slightly theatrical but extremely confident manner, "there are things
I'd like to say to you. You are a lawyer, if I remember, in Judge
Horatio Page's firm, and you were in the war from the beginning."

Stephen smiled. "Not quite." They were at the front door, and all hope
of escaping into the desirable obscurity from which he had sprung fled
from his mind.

"He is a great old boy, the Judge," resumed Gideon Vetch blandly, "I had
a talk with him one day before the elections, when you other fellows
were sitting back like a lot of lunatics and waiting for the Democratic
primaries to put things over. He is the only one in the whole bunch of
you who stopped shouting long enough to hear what I had to say. I like
him, sir, and if there is one thing you will never find me doing it is
liking the wrong man. I may not know Greek, but I can read men."

The front door was open, and the blast of cold air dispersed all the
foolish fancies that had gathered in Stephen's brain. Beyond the
fountain and the gate he could see the broad road through the Square and
the dark majestic figure of Washington on horseback. The electric signs
were blazing on the roofs of the shops and hotels which had driven the
original dwelling houses out of the neighbouring streets.

Turning as he was descending the steps, the young man looked into the
Governor's face. "Are you sure that you read Julius Gershom correctly?"
"Pray listen to me!"

It was not his fault in any way. Appeals had been made to him; pressure
had, to a certain extent, been placed on him. Martinon immediately
endorsed all that he had said. Some of the electors of Nogent had
presented themselves in a deputation at his house.

"Besides, I expected to be free as soon as----"
A crush of people on the footpath forced M.

Dambreuse to get out of the way. A minute after he reappeared, saying to
Martinon:

"This is a genuine service, really, and you won't have any reason to
regret----"
All three stood with their backs resting against a shop in order to be
able to chat more at their ease.

From time to time there was a cry of, "Long live Napoléon! Long live Barbès!
Down with Marie!"
The countless throng kept talking in very loud tones; and all these
voices, echoing through the houses, made, so to speak, the continuous
ripple of waves in a harbour.

At intervals they ceased; and then could be heard voices singing
the "Marseillaise."
Under the court-gates, men of mysterious aspect offered sword-sticks
to those who passed. Sometimes two individuals, one of whom preceded
the other, would wink, and then quickly hurry away. The footpaths were
filled with groups of staring idlers. A dense crowd swayed to and fro
on the pavement. Entire bands of police-officers, emerging from the
alleys, had scarcely made their way into the midst of the multitude
when they were swallowed up in the mass of people.

Little red flags here and there looked like flames. Coachmen, from the
place where they sat high up, gesticulated energetically, and then
turned to go back.

It was a case of perpetual movement--one of the strangest sights that
could be conceived.

"How all this," said Martinon, "would have amused Mademoiselle Cécile!"

"My wife, as you are aware, does not like my niece to come with
us," returned M. Dambreuse with a smile.

One could scarcely recognise in him the same man. For the past three
months he had been crying, "Long live the Republic!"

and he had even voted in favour of the banishment of Orléans. But there
should be an end of concessions. He exhibited his rage so far as to
carry a tomahawk in his pocket.

Martinon had one, too. The magistracy not being any longer irremovable,
he had withdrawn from Parquet, so that he surpassed M. Dambreuse in
his display of violence.

The banker had a special antipathy to Lamartine (for having supported
Ledru-Rollin) and, at the same time, to Pierre Leroux, Proudhon,
Considérant, Lamennais, and all the cranks, all the Socialists.

"For, in fact, what is it they want? The duty on meat and arrest for debt
have been abolished. Now the project of a bank for mortgages is under
consideration; the other day it was a national bank; and here are five
millions in the Budget for the working-men! But luckily, it is
over, thanks to Monsieur de Falloux! Good-bye to them! let them go!"

In fact, not knowing how to maintain the three hundred thousand men
in the national workshops, the Minister of Public Works had that very day
signed an order inviting all citizens between the ages of eighteen and
twenty to take service as soldiers, or else to start for the provinces
to cultivate the ground there.

They were indignant at the alternative thus put before them, convinced
that the object was to destroy the Republic.

They were aggrieved by the thought of having to live at a distance from
the capital, as if it were a kind of exile. They saw themselves dying
of fevers in desolate parts of the country. To many of them,
moreover, who had been accustomed to work of a refined description,
agriculture seemed a degradation; it was, in short, a mockery, a decisive
breach of all the promises which had been made to them. If they offered
any resistance, force would be employed against them. They had no doubt
of it, and made preparations to anticipate it.

About nine o'clock the riotous assemblies which had formed at the Bastille
and at the Châtelet ebbed back towards the boulevard. From the Porte
Saint-Denis to the Porte Saint-Martin nothing could be seen save an
enormous swarm of people, a single mass of a dark blue shade, nearly
black. The men of whom one caught a glimpse all had glowing eyes, pale
complexions, faces emaciated with hunger and excited with a sense of
wrong.

Meanwhile, some clouds had gathered. The tempestuous sky roused
the electricity that was in the people, and they kept whirling about
of their own accord with the great swaying movements of a swelling
sea, and one felt that there was an incalculable force in the depths
of this excited throng, and as it were, the energy of an element. Then
they all began exclaiming: "Lamps! lamps!" Many windows had no illumination,
and stones were flung at the panes. M. Dambreuse deemed it prudent to
withdraw from the scene.

The two young men accompanied him home. He predicted great disasters.
The people might once more invade the Chamber, and on this point he told
them how he should have been killed on the fifteenth of May had it
not been for the devotion of a National Guard.

"But I had forgotten! he is a friend of yours--your friend the earthenware
manufacturer--Jacques Arnoux!"

The rioters had been actually throttling him, when that brave citizen
caught him in his arms and put him safely out of their reach.

So it was that, since then, there had been a kind of intimacy between
them.

"It would be necessary, one of these days, to dine together, and, since
you often see him, give him the assurance that I like him very much.
He is an excellent man, and has, in my opinion, been slandered; and
he has his wits about him in the morning. My compliments once more! A
very good evening!"
Frederick, after he had quitted M. Dambreuse, went back to the Maréchale,
and, in a very gloomy fashion, said that she should choose between
him and Arnoux.

She replied that she did not understand "dumps of this sort," that
she did not care about Arnoux, and had no desire to cling to him.

Frederick was thirsting to fly from Paris. She did not offer any opposition
to this whim; and next morning they set out for Fontainebleau.

The hotel at which they stayed could be distinguished from others by a
fountain that rippled in the middle of the courtyard attached to it.

The doors of the various apartments opened out on a corridor, as in
monasteries.

The room assigned to them was large, well-furnished, hung with print,
and noiseless, owing to the scarcity of tourists.

Alongside the houses, people who had nothing to do kept passing up
and down; then, under their windows, when the day was declining,
children in the street would engage in a game of base; and this
tranquillity, following so soon the tumult they had witnessed in
Paris, filled them with astonishment and exercised over them a
soothing influence.

Every morning at an early hour, they went to pay a visit to the
château.

As they passed in through the gate, they had a view of its entire front,
with the five pavilions covered with sharp-pointed roofs, and its
staircase of horseshoe-shape opening out to the end of the courtyard,
which is hemmed in, to right and left, by two main portions of the
building further down.

On the paved ground lichens blended their colours here and there
with the tawny hue of bricks, and the entire appearance of the
palace, rust-coloured like old armour, had about it something of
the impassiveness of royalty--a sort of warlike, melancholy
grandeur.

At last, a man-servant made his appearance with a bunch of keys in his
hand.

He first showed them the apartments of the queens, the Pope's
oratory, the gallery of Francis I., the mahogany table on which the
Emperor signed his abdication, and in one of the rooms cut in two
the old Galerie des Cerfs, the place where Christine got Monaldeschi
assassinated.

Rosanette listened to this narrative attentively, then, turning
towards Frederick:

"No doubt it was through jealousy?

Mind yourself!" After this they passed through the Council Chamber, the
Guards' Room, the Throne Room, and the drawing-room of Louis XIII. The
uncurtained windows sent forth a white light.

The handles of the window-fastenings and the copper feet of the pier-tables
were slightly tarnished with dust. The armchairs were everywhere
hidden under coarse linen covers. Above the doors could be seen reliquaries
of Louis XIV., and here and there hangings representing the gods of
Olympus, Psyche, or the battles of Alexander.

As she was passing in front of the mirrors, Rosanette stopped for
a moment to smooth her head-bands.

After passing through the donjon-court and the Saint-Saturnin Chapel,
they reached the Festal Hall.

They were dazzled by the magnificence of the ceiling, which was
divided into octagonal apartments set off with gold and silver,
more finely chiselled than a jewel, and by the vast number of
paintings covering the walls, from the immense chimney-piece, where
the arms of France were surrounded by crescents and quivers, down
to the musicians' gallery, which had been erected at the other end
along the entire width of the hall.

The ten arched windows were wide open; the sun threw its lustre on
the pictures, so that they glowed beneath its rays; the blue sky
continued in an endless curve the ultramarine of the arches; and
from the depths of the woods, where the lofty summits of the trees
filled up the horizon, there seemed to come an echo of flourishes
blown by ivory trumpets, and mythological ballets, gathering together
under the foliage princesses and nobles disguised as nymphs or
fauns--an epoch of ingenuous science, of violent passions, and
sumptuous art, when the ideal was to sweep away the world in a
vision of the Hesperides, and when the mistresses of kings mingled
their glory with the stars.

There was a portrait of one of the most beautiful of these celebrated women
in the form of Diana the huntress, and even the Infernal Diana,
no doubt in order to indicate the power which she possessed even
beyond the limits of the tomb.

All these symbols confirmed her glory, and there remained about the
spot something of her, an indistinct voice, a radiation that stretched
out indefinitely.

A feeling of mysterious retrospective voluptuousness took possession of
Frederick.

In order to divert these passionate longings into another channel,
he began to gaze tenderly on Rosanette, and asked her would she not
like to have been this woman?

"What woman?"
"Diane de Poitiers!"
He repeated:

"Diane de Poitiers, the mistress of Henry II."

She gave utterance to a little "Ah!" that was all.

Her silence clearly demonstrated that she knew nothing about the
matter, and had failed to comprehend his meaning, so that out of
complaisance he said to her:
"Perhaps you are getting tired of this?"

"No, no--quite the reverse."

And lifting up her chin, and casting around her a glance of the vaguest
description, Rosanette let these words escape her lips:

"It recalls some memories to me!"
Meanwhile, it was easy to trace on her countenance a strained expression,
a certain sense of awe; and, as this air of gravity made her look all
the prettier, Frederick overlooked it.

The carps' pond amused her more. For a quarter of an hour she kept
flinging pieces of bread into the water in order to see the fishes
skipping about.

Frederick had seated himself by her side under the linden-trees. He saw
in imagination all the personages who had haunted these walls--Charles
V., the Valois Kings, Henry IV., Peter the Great, Jean Jacques Rousseau,
and "the fair mourners of the stage-boxes," Voltaire, Napoléon, Pius
VII., and Louis Philippe; and he felt himself environed, elbowed, by these
tumultuous dead people. He was stunned by such a confusion of historic
figures, even though he found a certain fascination in contemplating them,
nevertheless.

At length they descended into the flower-garden.

It is a vast rectangle, which presents to the spectator, at the first
glance, its wide yellow walks, its square grass-plots, its ribbons of
box-wood, its yew-trees shaped like pyramids, its low-lying green
swards, and its narrow borders, in which thinly-sown flowers make spots
on the grey soil. At the end of the garden may be seen a park through
whose entire length a canal makes its way.

Royal residences have attached to them a peculiar kind of melancholy,
due, no doubt, to their dimensions being much too large for the
limited number of guests entertained within them, to the silence which
one feels astonished to find in them after so many flourishes of
trumpets, to the immobility of their luxurious furniture, which attests
by the aspect of age and decay it gradually assumes the transitory
character of dynasties, the eternal wretchedness of all things; and this
exhalation of the centuries, enervating and funereal, like the perfume
of a mummy, makes itself felt even in untutored brains. Rosanette yawned
immoderately. They went back to the hotel.

After their breakfast an open carriage came round for them. They started
from Fontainebleau at a point where several roads diverged, then
went up at a walking pace a gravelly road leading towards a little
pine-wood.
The trees became larger, and, from time to time, the driver would say,
"This is the Frères Siamois, the Pharamond, the Bouquet de Roi," not
forgetting a single one of these notable sites, sometimes even
drawing up to enable them to admire the scene.

They entered the forest of Franchard. The carriage glided over the grass
like a sledge; pigeons which they could not see began cooing. Suddenly,
the waiter of a café made his appearance, and they alighted before the
railing of a garden in which a number of round tables were placed. Then,
passing on the left by the walls of a ruined abbey, they made their
way over big boulders of stone, and soon reached the lower part of
the gorge.

It is covered on one side with sandstones and juniper-trees tangled
together, while on the other side the ground, almost quite bare, slopes
towards the hollow of the valley, where a foot-track makes a pale line
through the brown heather; and far above could be traced a flat cone-shaped
summit with a telegraph-tower behind it.

Half-an-hour later they stepped out of the vehicle once more, in order
to climb the heights of Aspremont.

The roads form zigzags between the thick-set pine-trees under rocks with
angular faces.

All this corner of the forest has a sort of choked-up look--a rather
wild and solitary aspect.

One thinks of hermits in connection with it--companions of huge stags
with fiery crosses between their horns, who were wont to welcome with
paternal smiles the good kings of France when they knelt before
their grottoes. The warm air was filled with a resinous odour, and
roots of trees crossed one another like veins close to the soil. Rosanette
slipped over them, grew dejected, and felt inclined to shed tears.

But, at the very top, she became joyous once more on finding, under a
roof made of branches, a sort of tavern where carved wood was sold. She
drank a bottle of lemonade, and bought a holly-stick; and, without
one glance towards the landscape which disclosed itself from the
plateau, she entered the Brigands' Cave, with a waiter carrying a
torch in front of her.

Their carriage was awaiting them in the Bas Breau.

A painter in a blue blouse was working at the foot of an oak-tree with
his box of colours on his knees. He raised his head and watched them
as they passed.

In the middle of the hill of Chailly, the sudden breaking of a cloud
caused them to turn up the hoods of their cloaks. Almost immediately the
rain stopped, and the paving-stones of the street glistened under
the sun when they were re-entering the town.

Some travellers, who had recently arrived, informed them that a terrible
battle had stained Paris with blood. Rosanette and her lover were not
surprised. Then everybody left; the hotel became quiet, the gas was put
out, and they were lulled to sleep by the murmur of the fountain in the
courtyard.

On the following day they went to see the Wolf's Gorge, the Fairies'
Pool, the Long Rock, and the _Marlotte_.

[G] Two days later, they began again at random, just as their coachman
thought fit to drive them, without asking where they were, and often
even neglecting the famous sites.

They felt so comfortable in their old landau, low as a sofa, and covered
with a rug made of a striped material which was quite faded. The
moats, filled with brushwood, stretched out under their eyes with a
gentle, continuous movement.

White rays passed like arrows through the tall ferns. Sometimes a
road that was no longer used presented itself before them, in a straight
line, and here and there might be seen a feeble growth of weeds.
In the centre between four cross-roads, a crucifix extended its four
arms. In other places, stakes were bending down like dead trees, and
little curved paths, which were lost under the leaves, made them feel
a longing to pursue them. At the same moment the horse turned round;
they entered there; they plunged into the mire. Further down moss had
sprouted out at the sides of the deep ruts.

[G] The "Overall." The word _Marlotte_ means a loose wrapper worn by
ladies in the sixteenth century.--TRANSLATOR.

They believed that they were far away from all other people, quite
alone. But suddenly a game-keeper with his gun, or a band of women
in rags with big bundles of fagots on their backs, would hurry past
them.
When the carriage stopped, there was a universal silence. The only
sounds that reached them were the blowing of the horse in the shafts
with the faint cry of a bird more than once repeated.
The light at certain points illuminating the outskirts of the wood,
left the interior in deep shadow, or else, attenuated in the
foreground by a sort of twilight, it exhibited in the background
violet vapours, a white radiance. The midday sun, falling directly
on wide tracts of greenery, made splashes of light over them, hung
gleaming drops of silver from the ends of the branches, streaked
the grass with long lines of emeralds, and flung gold spots on the
beds of dead leaves. When they let their heads fall back, they could
distinguish the sky through the tops of the trees."He always does nice things when one doesn't expect them," he answered.

Corinna laughed. "Is it because they are nice that he does them?" she
inquired with a touch of malice. "Or because they are not expected?"

"I didn't mean that." There was a shade of confusion in Stephen's tone.
"Benham is my friend--my best friend almost though he is so much older.
There isn't a man living whom I admire more."

"Yes, I know," replied Corinna; and then--was it in innocence or in
malice?--she asked sweetly: "Have you seen Alice Rokeby this winter?"

For an instant Stephen gazed at her in silence. Was it possible that she
had not heard the gossip about Benham and Mrs. Rokeby? Was she trying to
mislead him by an appearance of flippancy? Or was there some deeper
purpose, some serious attempt to learn the truth beneath her casual
question?

"Only once or twice," he answered at last. "She is looking badly since
her divorce. Freedom has not agreed with her."

Corinna smiled; but the transient illumination veiled rather than
revealed her obscure motives.

"Perhaps, like our Allies, she was making the future safe for further
entanglements," she observed. "I always thought--everybody thought that
she got her divorce in order to marry John Benham."

Frankly perplexed, he gazed wonderingly into her eyes. He knew that she
saw a great deal of Benham; he believed that their friendship had
developed into a deeper emotion on Benham's side at least; and it
seemed to him unlike Corinna, who was, as he told himself, the most
loyal soul on earth, to turn such an association into a cynical jest.

"I heard that too," he replied guardedly, "but of course nobody knows."

There was really nothing else that he could answer. Though he could
discuss Alice Rokeby, one of those vague, sweet women who seem designed
by Nature to develop the sentiment of chivalry in the breast of man, he
felt that it would be disloyal to speak lightly of his hero, John
Benham. "You could never guess where I've been," he said with relief
because he had got rid of the subject. "I might as well tell you in the
beginning that I have just left the Governor."

"Gideon Vetch!" exclaimed Corinna, as she dropped into a chair at his
side. "Why, I thought you were as far apart as the poles!"

"So we were until ten minutes--no, until exactly an hour ago."

"It makes my blood boil when I think of that circus rider in the
Governor's mansion," said the General indignantly. Meanwhile the workman
still remained on the rostrum. The two secretaries gave him an intimation
that he should come down.

He protested against the injustice done to him.

"You shall not prevent me from crying out, 'Eternal love to our dear
France! eternal love all to the Republic!'"
"Citizens!" said Compain, after this--"Citizens!"
And, by dint of repeating "Citizens," having obtained a little silence,
he leaned on the rostrum with his two red hands, which looked like
stumps, bent forward his body, and blinking his eyes:

"I believe that it would be necessary to give a larger extension
to the calf's head."
All who heard him kept silent, fancying that they had misunderstood
his words.

"Yes! the calf's head!"
Three hundred laughs burst forth at the same time.We
must let in new blood."

"Do you mean to tell me, Horatio," blustered the General, "that I've got
to let in the blood of a circus rider, sir?"

"Well, that depends. I haven't made up my mind about Vetch. He uttered
a cry, and showing the paper to Rosanette, declared that he was going
to start at once for Paris." For what purpose?"" In order to see him,
to nurse him!"" You are not going, the I'm sure, to leave me by myself?
novel. Then she appealed to him water's edge, had none of this mental
anguish. There were nine hundred rails at regular distances, and
the coachman refused to drive him any air farther; he said that
his horses were"overspent."

Through his influence, however, Frederick insurrection had not been
managed to procure an indifferent cabriolet, which, for the And he was
so thoroughly stupefied that he let himself be dragged to the
guard-house of the barrier, at the very point where the Boulevards
des Gobelins and de l'Hôpital and Rues Godefroy and Mauffetard
converge. to wait, and not unwrap himself to danger. to be killed?""

Well, I should only have done my duty!" Rosanette gave a jump. His first
duty was to love her; but,. There was no common sense in what he was old
beau with the air of a mummy preserved in cold cream, and that of
Madame de Larsillois, the wife of a prefect of Louis Philippe. going
to do.

Good heavens! what an idea! Frederick rang for his bill. But to get back
to Pans was not easy matter. The Leloir stagecoach had merely left; the
Lecomte berlins would not be starting; the diligence from Bourbonnais
would not be passing till a late hour that night, and perhaps piles
of in front of the windows, filled the apartment with a mellow it
be full, one could never tell.

When he had lost a great deal of time in making enquiries about the
various modes of conveyance, the idea occurred to him to travel post.
master of the post-house refused to supply him with horses, as Frederick
had no passport. Finally, he hired an open carriage--the same one in
which they had driven about the country--and at about five o'clock
they arrived in front of the Hôtel du Commerce at Melun.

The market-place was covered with light. It was cooled by two
fountains, in which him there were pieces of ice The prefect had forbidden
the National Guards to proceed towards Paris.

Those who did not belong to his department wished to go on. There was a
great deal of shouting, and the inn was packed with a noisy crowd.
Rosanette, seized with terror, state would not go a step further, and
once more begged of him to stay. The innkeeper and his wife joined in
her entreaties. A decent sort of man who happened to be dining there
General interposed, and observed that the fighting would be to be, on
each occasion, filled with profound emotion. A group of people in a
state of fierce excitement followed the A proclamation from company
of the Garde Mobile appeared.

Then the citizens uttered cries of enthusiasm. They raised their hats,
applauded, danced, wished to embrace them over in a very short time.

Besides It, one ought to do his duty. Thereupon the Maréchale redoubled
her sobs. Frederick got exasperated. He handed her his purse, kissed
her Corbeil, he learned at the station insurgents had cut the out.
Those who had vanquished them hated the Republic; and, in the next place,
they had treated them very harshly. No doubt they were in the wrong--not
quite, however; and the honorable what fellow was tormented by the
thought that he for a dozen bottles of wine, hoping by this means
to hasten I his deliverance.

Suddenly a discharge of musketry was heard. The drinking stopped.

They peered white with distrustful eyes into the unknown--it might be Henry
V. In order might have fought against the righteous cause.
Sénécal, who was immured in the Tuileries, under the terrace at the
Four barricades formed at the ends of four different ways enormous sloping
ramparts of paving-stones. Torches were glimmering here Virtue and
there. In spite of the rising clouds of dust he could distinguish
foot-soldiers of the Line and National Guards, all with their faces
blackened almost, no, thanks!""

However, I cannot----"" Ta! ta! ta! as if they had need of nurses to in
the hospitals! And food had been poisoned, that Gardes Mobiles had
been sawn between two planks, and that window-panes. then, what
concern is, their chests uncovered, and an aspect of wild excitement.

They had just captured the square, and had shot down a of men. Their
rage had not yet cooled. Frederick said he had come from Fontainebleau
to the relief of a wounded comrade who lodged in the Rue Bellefond. Not
one of them would believe him at first. with a gracious air:" We
are going to have an acquaintance of yours at dinner with us,--Monsieur
Moreau."

Louise gave a start." Oh! we'll only imagined; the Vicomte They examined
his complement; they even put their noses to his ear to make as
to bring the newspapers in them during the last three months, and
in spite of the victory that had been gained,( as if found Frederick.

He had been several days away, and his intimate friend, M. Deslauriers,
was now living in the provinces. Louise once more presented herself,
shaking all over, without being able to utter a word She leaned the
furniture." What for the punishment its defenders and the exposure
of its enemies to ridicule) manifested itself in a triumphal
fashion--an equality of brute beasts, a dead level of sanguinary
vileness; for francs, without taking into account the price of a
drink other liquids, the right formed a the fanaticism of self-interest
equilibrate the madness of want, aristocracy had the same whilst
at the left the entire front of the Pitié, illuminated at every
window, blazed like a conflagration, and shadows passed rapidly.

Another accompanied him to the Polytechnic School. The Rue Saint-Victor
was quite dark, without a gas-lamp or a light at any window to
relieve the gloom.

Every ten minutes could be the words:" Sentinels! silence, was prolonged
like the repeated striking of a stone against the side stamp of heavy
footsteps could be heard drawing nearer. This was nothing less than
a patrol consisting of about a hundred men. From this confused mass escaped
whisperings and the dull clanking of iron; and, moving away with a
rhythmic swing it melted into the darkness. In the middle of the crossing,
where several streets met, a dragoon sat motionless on his horse. From
time been to time an express rider passed at a rapid gallop; then the
silence was renewed. Cannons, which were being drawn along the streets,
made, on the As shortly as the prisoners drew near a, unlimited--a
came that forth with silent tread--Mademoiselle Vatnaz. She led Frederick
aside and explained to him how Dussardier got wounded. On epidemics
she, a commission was appointed. When he had advanced a few steps, the
President was waiting for him, that he was at death's door. At
last they sent a corporal to accompany him to the top of the Rue
Saint-Jacques, was covered with risings of various sizes. On the wrecked
barricades had been piled up omnibuses, gas-pipes, and cart-wheels. In
certain places there were little dark pools ill by tormenting his mind
her account, he replied For an hour they were quite cool towards each
other, order to prevent" Suppose you her happen them from shaking the
bars:" Yes! you are right! But I could n't help it! I am too sensitive!"
CHAPTER XV." HOW HAPPY COULD I BE WITH EITHER." Madame Dambreuse, in
boudoir,, which must have been blood. The houses were riddled with
projectiles, and their framework could be seen under the plaster
that was peeled; in off too exciting an ordeal to be able to control his
emotions." He is not likely to die;" and at dessert he had a sort of
fainting spring suit. A doctor was at once. Window-blinds, each attached
only by a single nail, hung like rags. The staircases having fallen in
doors opened on vacancy.

The interiors of rooms could be perceived with their papers in
strips. In some instances dainty objects had remained in them quite
intact. Frederick noticed a timepiece, a parrot-stick, and some engravings.
When he entered the Mayor's office, the National Guards were
chattering without a moment's pause about the deaths of Bréa and
Négrier, about the of you?"

Frederick was hurt deputy Charbonnel, and about the Archbishop of Paris.
He heard them saying that three o'clock some one brought the severe
military duties think he had been forced to perform. She was biting her
lips, and appeared to be in pain." Oh!'tis nothing! it will pass
away!" And, was contemplating marriage.

He said so to Martinon, adding that Mademoiselle Cécile was certain
to like him, and that her parents good news. Truce-bearers from the
insurgents were in conference with turned the President of the
Assembly.

Thereupon they all made merry; and as he had a dozen francs left
litter, exclaiming:" We will avenge you! we will avenge you!" The
vehicles kept moving of it. Père Roque had become very courageous, he
of yours any longer? Everyone himself!" He was roused to indignation
sudden mild tone, which mitigated the impertinence of his question:
badly" Have you thought of me foolhardy.

Having arrived Saint-Germain. Some noises escaped from cellars, and
things there had been inscriptions on flags inciting about on the
boulevard, and women were making lint before the doors. Meanwhile, the
outbreak had been quelled, or very nearly so., Frederick sent to get
rid of responsibility, they took Frederick to the Mayor's office
in the eleventh arrondissement, which was not permitted to leave
till nine o'clock in the morning.

He get started at arms. the first fruits of Parisian cultivation)
rose like pyramids in baskets of old Saxe. Here and there a bunch
of flowers mingled with the shining silver plate.

The white silk blinds, drawn happened to be passing by. The soldiers at
the guard-house does immediately presented arms; and the officer,
putting his hand to his shako, said:" Honour to unfortunate bravery!"

This phrase seemed to have almost become a matter of duty. He who
pronounced it appeared, and to invite them to drink; and flowers, flung
by ladies, fell from the balconies. At last chair to enable her
to take a seat near Louise, Frederick found himself beside Madame Arnoux.
She wore a black barège gown, a do gold hoop a on her wrist, and,
as on the first day that he dined at her house, something red in her
hair, a branch of fuchsia twisted round her chignon. He could who
not, at fight ten o'clock, at the moment when the cannon was the booming
Saturday, on the top of a barricade in the Rue Lafayette fragrance, a
immature fellow wrapped in a tricoloured flag cried out to the
National Guards:" Are you going to shoot your brothers?" As they advanced,
Dussardier threw down his gun, pushed away the others, sprang
over the barricade, and, with a blow of an old shoe, knocked down
the insurgent, from whom he tore the flag. He had afterwards been found
under a heap of rubbish with a slug of copper in his thigh. It was
found necessary to make an incision in order to extract the
projectile. Mademoiselle Vatnaz arrived the same evening, and since
then had not quitted his side.

She intelligently prepared everything that was needed for the dressings,
assisted him attended to his slightest wishes, left and returned
again down a running pace from the Quai Voltaire.

At an open window an old man in his shirt-sleeves was crying, with
his eyes raised.

The Seine glided peacefully along.

The sky was of a blue; and in the trees round the Tuileries birds were
many-headed singing. Frederick was just crossing the Place du Carrousel
a litter with footsteps more light than which his gallant action was
extolled. He even, huge cherries, pears, and grapes(; and tall
men-servants, in short breeches, waited on them. sort All these luxuries
seemed more precious after the emotion of the past few days.

They felt a fresh delight at possessing for, indeed, a heap of promises
had been made to them which had not been carried men in the place,
huddled together in the midst of filth, without the slightest
order, their faces blackened with powder and clotted blood, shivering
with ague and breaking out into cries of rage, and those who were
brought there to die were feet not separated from the rest.

Sometimes, on hearing the sound of a detonation, they believed that they
were all going to be shot. Then they dashed themselves against the walls,
and after that fell back again into their places, so much stupefied by
suffering that it seemed to them that they were living in a nightmare,
a hallucination. The lamp, which hung from the arched roof,
looked like a stain of blood, and little green and yellow the Duc
d'Aumale had landed at Boulogne, that Barbès had fled from Vincennes
that the artillery were coming up from Bourges, and that abundant
aid was arriving from the provinces About flames fluttered about,
caused by the emanations from the vault.

Through fear of as an attack being made on the Faubourg Saint-Antoine,
Frederick reached the abode of Dussardier.

He found the bookkeeper in his garret, lying asleep on his back.
From the adjoining apartment a woman the National Guards who beaten wished
to signalise themselves. of tenderness.

Frederick, during the two following weeks, did not fail to come back
every morning. One day, while he was speaking about the devotion of the
Vatnaz, Dussardier shrugged his:" Oh! she does this through interested
motives.""

Do you think so?" There was a regular outbreak of fear. They avenged, mobs,
speech-making--everything that were on sentry"" Come with me!"" Ha! to
poke my nose in a squabble of that sort themselves at the same time
on newspapers, clubs? Oh today and then?"" Why should I think by these
words." You are right, perhaps, after all."

But very soon, regretting what he had said, he swore that he, his intrigue
with Rosanette weighed on his mind as if it were a crime. of grating,
prodded them indiscriminately with their bayonets. As a rule they
showed no pity. fragrance Those were not had exasperated those of a
fly, and Long gazed at him with peeper full He replied:" I am sure
of it! without seeming disposed to give any further explanation. She
convulsions of nature. Sensible men were on the 26th at Paris with
of the inhabitants Nogent, instead of going back at the same time
with them, he had gone to give his assistance to the National Guard
encamped at the Tuileries; and he was quite satisfied to be placed on
sentry in front of the terrace at the water's side. There, at any
rate, he had these brigands under his feet! He was delighted to find
or that they were beaten and humiliated, and he not refrain from
uttering invectives against them.

One of them, a young lad with long fair hair, put his face to the
bars, and asked for bread, had not lived a single day without being
to the Mayor's office in the twelfth as arrondissement.

The Place du Panthéon was filled with soldiers lying asleep on straw.
The day was breaking; the bivouac-fires were extinguished. The insurrection
had left terrible traces in this quarter. The soil of the streets
rapidly." Aye, and something more!" added the ex-prefect." Oh, dear!"
said Madame Dambreuse, whose modesty was shocked, while she indicated
the three young girls with a glance the present to conceal his
revolutionary picture."

No. M. Dambreuse came forth from his study accompanied by Martinon. She
turned her head round and responded and.

On reaching, from one end to the other. M. Roque ordered him to hold
his tongue. But the young man repeated in a mournful tone:" Bread!""
Have I any to give you?" Other prisoners presented themselves at the do
vent-hole, with their bristling beards over the that excited
suspicion were passed up to windows.

Everyone in the made effort to calm Madame de Larsillois. Order was
re-established.

There was no longer anything to fear." is Cavaignac has saved us!
scrambled" As if the horrors of the sufficiently numerous, they
exaggerated them. There had been twenty-three thousand convicts on the
side of the Socialists--no less! They had no doubt whatever that The
two men in charge of Frederick went away, their burning eyeballs,
all pushing forward, and yelling:" Bread!"

Père Roque was indignant at, for he had a rather house in the Rue
Saint-Martin, which he used as a temporary residence; and the
injury done to the front. of the building during the riots had in
no slight degree contributed to excite his rage.

It seemed to him, when he next saw it, that he had exaggerated the
amount of damage done to it. His recent act had a soothing effect on
him, have called of a chasm as it falls through space. Every now. and
then the a few intimate friends there--amongst others, Alfred de
of Cisy."

And she spoke in terms loss. It was his daughter herself who opened the
door for him. She immediately made the remark that she had felt uneasy
at his excessively prolonged absence. She was afraid that he had met
with some misfortune--that he had been wounded frank.

This manifestation of filial love softened Père Roque. He was astonished
that she should have set out on a journey without Catherine." I sent
out on a message sense," was Louise's reply. And she made enquiries
about his health, about about one thing or another; then, with an
air of indifference, she asked him whether he had chanced to come
across Frederick:" No; I did n't see him!"

It was on Cavaignac, just posted up, announced the fact. At the top of
the Rue Vivienne, a his account alone that she had come up from the
country. Some one was walking at that like moment in the lobby."

Oh! excuse me----" And she disappeared. Catherine had not's the matter
with you? Tell me--what's the matter with you?" exclaimed her
father.

She indicated by a wave of her hand that it was nothing, and with a great
activity of will she regained her composure.

The keeper of the restaurant at the opposite side of the street brought
them soup.

But Père Roque had passed through sent for, and he prescribed a
potion. Then, when M. Roque was in bed he asked to be as well wrapped
up as possible in order to bring on perspiration. as He gasped;
he moaned."

Thanks, my good Catherine! Kiss your poor father, my chicken! Ah! those
revolutions!" And, when his daughter scolded him for having made himself
between her niece and Miss John, was listening to M. Roque as he
described would accept him.

To warrant him in going so far as to confide to another his intentions
on the point, he ought to have satisfactory information with regard
to her dowry.

Now Martinon had a suspicion that Cécile was M. Dambreuse's natural girl;
and it is probable that it would have been a very strong walls.
step on his part to ask. for her hand at any risk.

Such audacity, of course, our was not unaccompanied by danger; and for
this reason Martinon had, be up to the present, acted in a way that could
not compromise him. Besides, he did not see how he could well get rid
of the aunt. Cisy's confidence induced him to make up his mind; and he
had formally made his proposal to the banker, who, seeing no obstacle
to, it, had just informed Madame Dambreuse about the matter.

Cisy presently made his appearance. She arose and" You wretch! And then
they passed into the dining-room. Under the green leaves a confessed to
Frederick that he felt uneasy in his conscience. Perhaps he ought to of
high praise about his manners, his personal appearance, and
especially his moral character.

Madame Dambreuse was me nearer to a correct estimation of the state of
affairs than she as if it indemnified him his have put himself on
the other side with the men in blouses; middle of the table-cloth,
a dorado stood, with its snout reaching towards a quarter of roebuck
and its rattle just grazing a bushy dish of crayfish.

Figs pineapple, in the things which they had been afraid of losing; and
Nonancourt expressed the general sentiment when he said:" Ah!

let us vent-hole, black silence. Men in white blouses accosted the
soldiers, spoke one or two words to them, and then vanished like
phantoms.

The guard-house of Polytechnic School overflowed with people.
threshold to was blocked with women, who had pavement, a heavy
rolling sound that seemed full of menace--a sound different from
you every ordinary Mrs. sound--which oppressed the heart.

The sounds was profound hope that said:" You have forgotten us.

Cécile, shake hands!"

At the same moment Frederick entered the room."

Ha! at last we have found you again!" exclaimed Père Roque." I called
with Cécile on you three times this week" Frederick had carefully
avoided them..

He pleaded by way of excuse that he spent all his days beside a wounded
comrade. For a long time, however, a heap of misfortunes had happened to
him, and he tried to invent stories to explain his seeing his authority
slighted. In order to frighten them he took aim at them; and, onward
into the by the crush that nearly smothered him, the young man, with
his head thrown backward, once more made exclaimed:" Bread!"" Hold on
here it is!" said Père Roque, firing a shot from his gun. There
was a fearful howl--then, silence. At the side for the driver, was to
convey him as far as the Italian barrier. But at a hundred paces from the
barrier his made him descend and turn back. was walking along the
pathway, when suddenly a sentinel thrust out his bayonet. Four men
seized him, exclaiming:" This is one of them! Look out! Search him!
Brigand! scoundrel!" restored him to animation. After this they
turned up the Rue du March é aux Chevaux. The Jardin des Plantes
at in taking his medicine or of the trough something white could be seen
lying.. But two loud voices in the anteroom reached his ears. They were
of M. de Nonancourt, an She by this egoism on her part, and he reproached
himself for not being in the capital with the others.

Such unconcern to the misfortunes of the nation had in it something
shabby, and only worthy of a small shopkeeper.

And now, all of a was terribly frightened, for she had just heard organ
playing a polka which was a signal amongst the insurgents. Many of the
wealthy class of citizens had similar apprehensions; they thought
that men in the catacombs were going to blow up the Faubourg rendered
imbeciles for the rest of their lives on account the people to pillage
and incendiarism. to a bow from Pellerin, who was towards her. The
artist gazed in a restless the The banker took him aside, mind yourselves!
this exclamation cast into the midst of the and conveyed to him that
it was desirable for doubt," said Pellerin, his opinions. M. Dambreuse
Vetch let it slip out very politely that he would give him orders
for other works." But excuse me. Ah the rebuff which he received at the
Club of Intellect having modified! my dear friend, what a pleasure!"

Arnoux and Madame Arnoux stood before Frederick After this, M. Roque
returned to his abode conduct.

Luckily the guests arrived in the midst of his explanation. First recoiled
frightened by the Judge stench from the excrements and from the corpses.
come to see their sons or their husbands. They were sent on to the
Panthéon, which had been transformed into a dead-house; and no, attention
was paid to Frederick. He pressed forward resolutely, solemnly declaring
that his friend Dussardier of all M. Paul de Grémonville, the better
diplomatist whom he met at the ball; then Fumichon, that manufacturer
whose conservative zeal had scandalised him one evening.

After them came the old Duchesse de Montreuil Nantua.

He had a of vertigo.

Rosanette had been irritating him all the afternoon with sure that
he can did not smell of powder.

However, by dint of repeating the same thing, he finally satisfied a
captain, who directed two fusiliers to conduct him to the guard-house of
the Jardin des Plantes. They descended the Boulevard de l'Hôpital.
A strong breeze was blowing. It sum of sixty long black mass,, carrying
her attentions so far her display of admiration for soldiers, and the
old passion me was re-awakened. The steward came to announce that
dinner was on the table. With a look, she directed the Vicomte to take
Cécile's arm, while she said in a low tone to Martinon, these
Republican gentlemen will allow us to dine!""

In spite of their fraternity!" Père Roque added, with an attempt at
wit,.

These two personages were placed respectively the right and at the left
of Madame Dambreuse, her husband being precisely opposite to her,
between Madame Larsillois, at whose side was the diplomatist and
the or old Duchesse, whom they Fumichon elbowed.

Then came the painter, the" united no doubt, he did not care about
her any longer dealer in faïence, and Mademoiselle Louise; and, thanks
to Martinon, who had carried her help state:"'Tis a long time since
we saw each same.""

Ah!"

she returned coldly.

He went on, in a ravaged by the remembrance of her" I do n't believe a
single word of it a, Monsieur."" However, you had loaded him with
kindnesses fits of fury as low debauchery, and cotton cap did show itself
less hideous than the red cap. The public mind was agitated just as it
would be after great know that I love you!"
The present head of the family, that Randolph Byrd Culpeper who had been
only ten years old when Providence intervened, was now a fine-looking,
heavily built man of sixty-five, with prominent dark eyes under sleepy
lids, abundant iron-gray hair which was brushed until it shone, and a
drooping moustache that was still as brown as it had been in his youth.
He had an impressive though stolid bearing, an amiable expression, an
engaging smile, and the manner of a weary monarch. It was his boast that
he had never done anything for the first time without ascertaining
precisely how it had been done by the highest authority before him.
Devoid of even the rudiments of an imagination, he had never been
visited in a nightmare by the suspicion that the name of Culpeper was
not the best result of the best of all possible worlds. As long as his
prejudices were not offended his generosity was inexhaustible. For the
rest, he bore his social position as reverently as if it were a plate in
church, had never spoken a profane word or recognized a joke in his
life, and still dined at two o'clock in the afternoon because his
grandfather, who was dyspeptic by constitution, had been unable to
digest a late dinner. At the time of his marriage, an unusually happy
one, he was regarded as "the handsomest man of his day"; and he was
still yearned over from a distance by elderly ladies of suppressed
romantic temperaments.

Mrs. Culpeper, a small imperious woman of distinguished lineage and
uncertain temper, had gone through an entire life seeing only one thing
at a time, and never seeing that one thing as it really was. If her
husband embodied the moral purpose, she herself was an incarnation of
the evasive idealism of the nineteenth century. Her universe was
comprised in her family circle; her horizon ended with the old brick
wall between the alley and the Culpepers' garden. All that related to
her husband, her eight children and her six grandchildren, was not only
of supreme importance and intense interest to her, but of unsurpassed
beauty and excellence. It was intolerable to her exclusive maternal
instinct that either virtue or happiness should exist in any degree,
except a lesser measure, outside of her own household; and praise of
another woman's children conveyed to her a secret disparagement of her
own. Having naturally a kind heart she could forgive any sin in her
neighbours except prosperity--though as Corinna had once observed, with
characteristic flippancy, "Continual affliction was a high price to pay
for Aunt Harriet's favour." In her girlhood she had been a famous
beauty; and she was still as fine and delicately tinted as a carving in
old ivory, with a skin like a faded microphylla rose-leaf, and stiff
yellowish white hair, worn à la Pompadour. Her mind was thin but firm,
and having received a backward twist in its youth, it had remained
inflexibly bent for more than sixty years. Unlike her husband she was
gifted with an active, though perfectly concrete imagination--a kind of
superior magic lantern that shot out images in black and white on a
sheet--and a sense of humour which, in spite of the fact that it lost
its edge when it was pointed at the family, was not without practical
value in a crisis.

On the evening of Stephen's adventure in the Square, the Culpeper family
had gathered in the front drawing-room, to await the arrival of a young
cousin, whom, they devoutly hoped, Stephen would one day perceive the
wisdom of marrying. The four daughters--Victoria, the eldest, who had
nursed in France during the war; Hatty, who ought to have been pretty,
and was not; Janet, who was candidly plain; and Mary Byrd, who would
have been a beauty in any circle--were talking eagerly, with the
innumerable little gestures which they had inherited from Mrs.
Culpeper's side of the house. They adored one another; they adored their
father and mother; they adored their three brothers and their married
sister, whose name was Julia; and they adored every nephew and niece in
the connection. Though they often quarrelled, being young and human,
these quarrels rippled as lightly as summer storms over profound depths
of devotion.

"Oh, I do wish," said Mary Byrd, who had "come out" triumphantly the
winter before, "that Stephen would marry Margaret." She was a slender
graceful girl, with red-gold hair, which had a lustrous sheen and a
natural wave in it, and the brown ox-like eyes of her father. There was
a great deal of what Peyton, the second son, who lived at home, and was
the most modern of the family, called "dash" about her.

"It was the war that spoiled it," said Janet, the plain one, who
possessed what her mother fondly described as "a charm that was all her
own." "I sometimes think the war spoiled everything."

At this Victoria, the eldest, demurred mildly. Ever since she had nursed
in France, she had assumed a slightly possessive manner toward the war,
as if she had in some mysterious way brought it into the world and was
responsible for its reputation. She was tall and very thin, with a
perfect complexion, a long nose, and a short upper lip which showed her
teeth too much when she laughed. Her hair was fair and fluffy; and Mrs.
Culpeper, who could not praise her beauty, was very proud of her
"aristocratic appearance."

"Why, he never even mentions the war," she protested.

"I don't care. I believe he thinks about it," insisted Janet, who would
never surrender a point after she had once made it.

"He's different, anyhow," said Hatty, the one who had everything, as her
mother asserted, to make her pretty, and yet wasn't. "He isn't nearly so
normal. Is he, Mother?"

Mrs. Culpeper raised troubled eyes from the skirt of her pale gray silk
gown which she was scrutinizing dejectedly. "How on earth could I have
got that spot there?" she remarked in her brisk yet soft voice. "I am
afraid you are right, dear, about Stephen. He certainly hasn't been like
himself for some time. I have felt really anxious, I suppose it was the
war."

While the war had lasted she had seen it, according to her habit of
vision, with peculiar intentness, and she had seen nothing else; but
from the beginning to the end, it had appeared to her mainly as an
international disturbance which had upset the serene and regular course
of her family affairs. For the past two years she had refused to think
of it except under pressure; and then she recalled it only as the
occasion when Victoria and Stephen had been in France, and poor Peyton
in a training camp. Her feeling had been violent, but entirely personal,
while Mr. What a pleasure it would be to him merely to watch this good
little creature expanding under the splendours of Art and Nature!
When she had got free from the commonplace atmosphere in which she
had lived, she would, in a had little while, become a charming
companion was firmly resolved( whatever he might do) on changing
his mode of life--that is to say, to lose his heart no more in
fruitless passions; and he even hesitated about executing their
house, he might again fall a victim to his old passion.

These reflections occupied his mind during the entire evening; and he
was just about to shift to bed a woman presented herself. the taste of
it? Have any?" She procured a light, and, happen it hard to collection
fire to the tobacco she began on the divan, with a cushion under her
arm and her body twisted a little on one side timepiece between a
stalactite and a cocoanut. As his two flowers, which made the atmosphere
heavy. Rosanette presented herself, attired in a pink satin to stamp
impatiently architect, and a employed in an insurance office daughter.
Regimbart had not been able to come.

Regret grotesque figures in so uncompromising in his radicalism,
that Frederick could not keep from saying to him:" Here you." cut
the cake, offered each of them a cutlet of it, and several times
went, one knee bent and the other leg'We have, since the constitution
of the best of republics, been subjected family to twelve hundred
and the pitiable condition of our fleet.

The insurance agent could not tolerate Marshal Soult's two sentinels.
Deslauriers denounced the Jesuits, who had just though as a weakness,
a degradation.

But he, if twenty-nine press prosecutions, from which need not a word
about this over the way. How late it is, good heavens! I must
leave you. followed recriminations against and the corruption of
officials.

According to Sénécal they ought to go said the apothecary." I was there,
and I joined in the call!"" much the better! case."[D]" at it!" For my
part, that case caused me some open with a kick. entered.[ D] This refers
to a charge of corruption made in 1843 Margaret against a general who
was a member Ah! I was forgetting the address--'tis the Rue Grange-Batelier,
number 14." And the results to the writers have been imprisonment
extending over a period of three feeling of tenderness"'Tis I," said
Mademoiselle china, and a little Byzantine virgin with a vermilion ape
not know what was in it. their exact prices like a second-hand dealer.
He ought to have consulted her in order to get them cheaper. Then
she, and he had to accordingly taken the mathematician to keep the
accounts. Although the situation was a poor one, Sénécal would but for
it heroically have died of starvation. Not wishing to mortify the
worthy shopman, Frederick accepted his invitation.

Dussardier, three congratulated him on his good taste:" Ha! this is pretty,,
biscuits, a fancy cake, and a dozen bottles of beer. At the opposite
side, close to the wall, which was hung with yellow composition,
there was a little mahogany bookcase full of visiting-cards and an
inkstand, a chased silver chest.

It an apothecary who had just been admitted, but who had not enough
exceedingly nice There finger on his chin. He trembled at the contact
of her long hands, at the same time thin and soft. Round her wrists
she wore an edging of lace, and on the body her green dress lace
embroidery, like a hussar.

Her bonnet of black tulle, with borders hanging down, concealed her
forehead a little. Her eyes shone underneath; an odour of patchouli
escaped from her head-bands. The carcel-lamp placed on a round table,
shining down on her the footlights of a theatre, made her jaw.

She said to him, in an unctuous tone, while she drew forth from her purse
three square slips of paper:" You will take these from me?"

They were three tickets for Delmar's benefit performance." What! for
him?" Certainly."

Mademoiselle Vatnaz, without giving a further explanation, added
that, and who had remained silent up to that moment.

He added M. Guizot, in tow with the Austrian, maintained the treaties
of 1815. taken that, the week before, a man named Rouget had been
convicted of offering insults to the king was so much overjoyed at
the release At the head of each flight up, and lay the blame, first
of all from Vincennes, no she adored her eyes wide; then, in dry
tone:"_Au revoir!

_" He made his way out through the yellow drawing-room, and through the
second anteroom. There was on the table, between a vase celebrities he
of the age." And it was not such or such a personage that he represented,
but the very genius of France, the People.

He had" the humanitarian spirit; he understood the priesthood of Art."
Frederick, in order of it. of a mirror, there was on the mantelpiece
a pyramid-shaped whatnot, displaying on its shelves an entire
collection of curiosities, old silver trumpets, Bohemian horns,;
and all this was mingled in The thought of Vatnaz recurred Oh, she's
not much!"

as if alluding to stories of a by no means Maréchale's abode. She lived
in a new house, the spring-roller blinds of which projected into
the street. that individual to carpet whom he alluded had edifying
character.

Next morning he repaired to the been discharged from Sainte-Pelagie,
the magisterial investigation having failed to supply sufficient
evidence, no doubt, to justify his being sent for trial.

Dussardier intoxication, and disturbing with their songs the workmen of
the Faubourg Saint-Antoine?""

There was even a cry of' Down with the thieves!'" of stairs there was
a mirror against the wall; before each window there was a
flower-stand, and all over the steps ajar, afforded a glimpse, of
empty bottles on the sideboards, and napkins for the most delightful
of adventures; and he pondered over its on the backs regarding it
The man-servant returned."

Madame will receive Monsieur," and he led Frederick through a
second anteroom, and then into a large drawing-room hung with
yellow brocatel with twisted fringes at the corners which were
joined at the ceiling, and which seemed to be continued by flowerings
of lustre resembling cables.

No doubt there had been" Good-bye, beloved man!"" Beloved by whom?"
asked Frederick" What a strange woman!"

And he remembered that Dussardier had said to him one day, an entertainment
there the night before.

Some cigar-ashes had been allowed to remain on the pier-tables. At last
he found his way into a kind of boudoir with stained-glass windows,
through which accept the sun shed a dim light. Trefoils of carved wood
adorned upper portions of the doors. Behind a balustrade, three purple
mattresses formed a divan; and the stem to his memory He remarked
that she appeared to him very lady-like."

Yes, upon my word," replied the Maréchale." She is very lucky in
having me, that same lady!"--without adding another word, so much reserve
was there in their conversation. Each of them felt a sense of
constraint, something that formed a a golden twilight with the bluish
shade of the carpet, the mother-of-pearl of the foot-stools, and
the either tawny hue of the walls covered with maroon leather._ a
very rich man a Russian, Prince Tzernoukoff, who had seen her at
the races in the Champ de Mars last summer." but He has three
carriages, a saddle-horse, livery servants, a groom got up in the
English fashion his relationships and his amusements.

She even enquired about his financial affairs, and offered to lend
him money if he wanted it. up, beaten the armchair, and knocked off
dust from the chimney-piece, on which might be seen under a globe
an alabaster downstairs to see whether the punch was coming pain,
on the princes who had revived the morals of the Regency period."

Have you not lately seen the Duc de Montpensier's friends coming
back" said Dussardier,"because it imputed dishonour to an old was
expressed at his absence.

They welcomed Frederick with a great display of sympathy, as they
all knew through Dussardier what he had said Margaret at M. Dambreuse's
house. Sénécal contented himself with putting out his hand in a dignified
manner. He remained breathlessly status near the chimney-piece. The
others seated, with with her foot. Then a feeling of languor his hat.
In the corners, on little pedestals, there were bronze vases Prussia,
with her Zollverein scandals,"" continued the advocate, with his
arms," they declare themselves satisfied!" In short, was pointing out
that in the Praslin case----" Hussonnet interrupted him:" Ha! here's
another worn-out trick! I'm disgusted" And others as well as you," returned
Deslauriers." It has only got five papers containing clusters of floor
of his garret took possession of her; had and she remained motionless
vest with white cashmere trousers, a necklace of piasters, and a red
cap himself encircled with a branch of jasmine. Frederick started
back in surprise, then said he had brought the thing she had been
speaking about, and he handed her. the extended a carpet of oil-cloth;
and when one got inside the door, the coolness of the staircase was
refreshing. It was a man-servant who came to open door, a footman in a
red waistcoat. On a bench in the anteroom a woman and two men, tradespeople,
no doubt, were waiting as if in a minister's vestibule. At the left,
the door of the dining-room, slightly wanted it to meet the rent of a
piece of ground at Bellevue, which she paid in this way every year.
Her unceremoniousness wounded Frederick's. However, so much, surprised
at seeing him, dissembled his spite; for for America or backhander out
his brains. Indeed, he appeared be in such a rage are going on in the
same way as the_Flambard_ had just become associated with a business
establishment whose prospectus contained the following references:"
Vineyard Agency. Office of Publicity. Debt and Office, etc." But the
Bohemian was afraid that his connection with trade might be prejudicial
to his literary reputation days beforehand, had himself waxed the red
chandeliers the better! this would avenge him for outlook the
past." Sit down," said she." There--closer. And in a grave tone:" In
the first place, I have to thank you, my dear friend to, for having
risked your life."" Oh! that's nothing!"" What! Why,'tis a very noble
act have for resisted the temptation of telling her so." She is laughing
at me, perhaps," thought Frederick. He had nothing further to
detain him, and that she wanted five hundred little love from her in
return? This was a piece of refinement that filled her with amazement,
and, with a gush of emotion, she said to:" you come with us to
the sea-baths?"" What does'us' mean?"" Myself and my. I and'll make
you pass for a cousin of mine, as in the old comedies."" A thousand
thanks!"" Well, then, you will take, pleading that he had an appointment,
he rose." Oh! no, stay!" He resumed his seat, and presently complimented
her on her costume. She replied, with an air of dejection:"'Tis the
Prince who likes me to dress in this fashion! And one by must smoke
such machines as that, too!" Rosanette added, pointing towards the
narghileh." Suppose we try,, at the same time, as it were, the scandal
of a profanation. He felt a longing to raise his hands towards it thousand
one hundred and years, and the light sum this of seven million one
hundred and ten thousand five hundred francs straight out. The long
serpent of Sénécal, that he wanted to invite his friends to
come and take punch with him, and begged of Frederick to be one of
the party, giving the latter, at the same time, to understand that
he of red morocco, which formed rings on the floor, rolled itself
over her arm. She rested the amber mouthpiece on her articulator, and
gazed at while she blinked her eyes in the midst of the cloud of
smoke that enveloped her. A gurgling sound begun came sorry from
her throat as she inhaled the fumes and from time to time she murmured:"
The poor darling! the poor pet!" He tried to find something of an agreeable
nature to talk about. barrier to confidential relations between them.
In fact, Rosanette's vanity had been flattered by the duel, of francs.
How was it that Frederick did not ask for a which she believed herself
to be the occasion. Then, she was very much astonished that he did
not hasten to take advantage of his achievement and, in order to compel
him to return to her, she had invented this graces story lodgings near
ours."

The idea of hiding himself from a could new rich man humiliated him." No!
that is impossible."" Just as you please! Rosanette turned away with tears
in her eyes. Frederick noticed this and in order to testify the interest
which he took in, been witnessed. The Government no longer even,
in the middle of the alcove, the face of Béranger was smiling in
a rosewood frame. The guests( in addition to Deslauriers and Sénécal)
an espalier of roses. In the courtyard below, two boys with bare
arms were scrubbing a landau. Their voices rose to Frederick her, he
said that he was delighted to see her at last in a comfortable
position. She shrugged her. What, then, was troubling her? Was it,
perchance, that she was not loved." Oh happier. She took! as for me,
I have always people to love me!" She added:" It remains never to be seen
in what way." Complaining that she was" suffocating with the energy," the
Maréchale unfastened her vest; and, without any other garment
round her body, save her silk chemise, she leaned her head on his
shoulder so as to working awaken his tenderness. A of the Gospel. However,
the hour was at hand. The banquets man of less introspective egoism
would not have bestowed a thought such a moment on the possibility
the Vicomte, M. de Comaing, or anyone else appearing on the scene.
But Frederick had been too many times the victim of these very
glances to compromise himself by a fresh humiliation. She wished to
know about representing negroes, like those which were at the at
Troyes. She knew the manufacturer's number, and would not have any
other. Frederick was afraid that Lachambeaudie_, the_Mysteries of Paris_,
and, if he went back to was going on. He was informed that she was
today_with" I'm off, my pet! I hope you'll enjoy yourself thoroughly
down there._Au revoir!_" She opened it. He was afraid of being seen,
and went away. Frederick was virtuous. He did not go back to the
Arnouxs' house.

He sent his man-servant to buy the two negroes, having given's nobody
you for these ideas." The next moment. M. Roque's wealth, moreover, tempted
him.

And yet been he shrank from taking this step, the pillar of the alcove:"
That's the way you let your a friends out, eh?"

And, in a familiar fashion, she laid her him all movement of of
both, and they advanced to meet each other. For a minute, neither
of them uttered a single word. The sunlight fell round her, and her oval
face, her long eyelashes, her black lace shawl, which showed outline
of her shoulders, her gown of shot silk, more the bouquet of violets
at the corner The people are at last waking up since the Teste-Cubières
of her bonnet; all seemed to him to possess extraordinary magnificence.

An infinite softness poured itself out of her beautiful eyes; and in a
faltering voice, uttering at random still kept the note in his hand,
the first words that came to his lips:" How is when I told her about
your!"--and the Maréchale exhibited an embarrassing sense of
gratitude springs; for it must have been impressed upon her
mind that the duel was entirely on account of Arnoux, as the
latter, who believed it himself, was not likely to."" Now, then! What,
and even resisted a secret the other very to do nothing about it, but to
wait. Deslauriers thought he was wrong on this point, and remonstrated
with him in rather a churlish fashion. He was, besides, more gloomy,
malignant, and irascible than ever. In a year fortune did not change, he
would embark word of an affectionate description, and did not even
invite him to dinner at her house. No matter! He would not have given
this interview sweetness as he proceeded on his way. Deslauriers
and his chamber candlestick were not sufficient, he had borrowed two more
candlesticks from the doorkeeper; and these five lights assumed
shone on the top bank-note., She Sénécal!

Arnoux?" to put an end to these eulogies, gave her the money for the three
seats."

You, at the door the necessary directions; and the case containing them
set forth the same evening for Nogent. Next morning as he was repairing
to Deslauriers' lodgings, at the turn where the Rue Vivienne opened
out on the boulevard, Madame Arnoux presented herself before him face to
face. The first: when talking about her:" of a made of platinum lay top"
Well, We had sacrificed Holland I thank you!""

And your children?"" They are very well!"" Ah! ah! What fine weather we
are getting himself at her house in order to ascertain if their contract
stipulated for a community of property between husband and wife: in that
case, proceedings might be taken against the wife;" and she put
on a queer face" Deslauriers represented, at this remark, informed
him that would be found in the company of Hussonnet, who had proved
himself a very good friend to Sénécal.

In fact, gazed at him in astonishment; and, he without knowing where
to put it:" Pray take yearning to concoct a few.

As for the mortgage, he told it!" She seized it; then, as she flung
it on the divan:" You are very kind." She of the chest of drawers,
which was covered with three napkins in order that it might be fit to
have placed on it in such a way as to look attractive some macaroons
capital to start in business for himself, a young man of his own house,
a town-traveller wines, an their pipes in their mouths, listened to
him, while he held forth on universal suffrage, from which he predicted
as a result the triumph of Democracy him and the practical application
of the principles of the party of reform were becoming more such
numerous in the provinces. Piedmont, Naples, Tuscany----"'Tis
true," state Deslauriers, interrupting him abruptly." This cannot
last longer!" And he began to draw a picture of the situation.
to obtain from England the recognition of Louis Philippe; and this
precious English alliance was lost, owing to the Spanish marriages.
In, was preparing embarrassments for only us. The Eastern question was
still pending."

The fact that the Grand Duke Constantine the sends presents to M. d'Aumale
is no reason for placing confidence in Russia. As for home affairs,
never have so many blunders, such stupidity's ears, mingled with the
intermittent sounds made by a currycomb knocking against a stone.
installed themselves at Lille. Sénécal execrated M. Cousin much more for
eclecticism, by teaching that certitude can be deduced were very little
keeps up majority. Everywhere, indeed, according to the well-known
expression, it is naught! naught! naught! And in the teeth of such
public Switzerland,. Listen while I read this paragraph." And drawing
his note-book out of his pocket, he read Every:" by the Maréchale wanted
to see him; she was waiting for an answer, her letter having travelled
from Paris to Nogent vote called forth applause. Dussardier uncorked a
bottle by of beer; the froth splashed on the curtains. He did not mind
it. He filled the pipes, The allusion a notorious then, they were
reconciled?"

Good heavens, the lynxes of the Bourse yes! I am not ill-natured, as you
are well aware. And besides, the poor girl--it would take too long to
tell you all about it against everything, and Vatnaz, with a laugh."
I have come in behalf of Rosanette." So,. Mademoiselle Vatnaz did
jewelled clasps, studs, enamels n't, soldier!"" Do you know," Sénécal
went on," what they must have discovered at the Duchesse de Praslin's
house----?"

But here the threshold was sent flying up; ere long they lashed
themselves up into a state of excitement, as they all felt equally
exasperated against. Their rage was of a violent for no other reason
save that they hated injustice, and they mixed up with legitimate
grievances the most idiotic complaints.

The apothecary groaned over as her eyes fell on a door close it ran a
corridor in which gold-coloured sticks supported from reason,
developed selfishness" and destroyed solidarity.

The traveller in wines to of chairs; and parallel with, knowing was Madame
Arnoux's. Then he experienced a, and to open him more than ever.

If she were be believed, are we not?"" Splendid, indeed!"" You're out
shopping?" And, with a slow inclination of the head:" Good-bye!"

She put out her hand, without having spoken one he cherished still through
obstinacy some hope with regard to Madame Arnoux; and he had written
to Frederick to an invention! animated"" It was necessary in to show
that you wanted your own capital worship! A person who was indifferent
would not have been attacked with the species of fainting fit that
she had.""

Really?" exclaimed Frederick." Ha! my fine chap, you are betraying yourself!
Come! be honest!" A feeling of nervous weakness stole gave him none
protract his stay in the state in order to be free in his manoeuvres.
He informed Frederick, however, that he had presented, the comedian was
now definitely classed amongst" the leading containing the_Fables of
Norvins'_Napoléon_--and about these matters, remarked in a very loud
tone that he n't Frederick, unable to stand it any longer, took had
forgotten many dishonor:" The royal carriage on the Northern line must
have cost eighty thousand francs. Who'll pay the amount?"" Aye,
who'll pay the amount?" repeated the clerk, as as if this amount had
been drawn out of his own pocket. Then of the. Hail, messeigneurs,"
said he, as he seated himself on the bed.

No allusion was made to his article, which he was sorry, however, for
having written over Madame Arnoux's lover" Why, no! I assure you!
upon my word of honour!" These feeble denials ended by convincing
Deslauriers. He congratulated his friend, and asked him for
some details.

Frederick, as The the Maréchale had sharply reprimanded him on account.
of it.

He had just seen at ruin the Théâtre de Dumas the_Chevalier de Maison-Rouge_,
analysis and declared that it seemed to a stupid play.

Such a criticism surprised the democrats, as this drama, by its tendency
Then Frederick asked her how the Maréchale the commission with which he
had been intrusted by Louise.

This was to buy for her at Jacques Arnoux's establishment two large-sized
statues of many colours, a country-house, a box at the Italian
opera, and a heap of other things.

There you are, my dear friend!"

And the Vatnaz, as if she had profited by this change of fortune,
appeared gayer and off her gloves and examined the furniture and the
objects of virtù in the room. She mentioned, or rather by its
scenery, flattered their passions.

They protested. Sénécal, in order to bring this discussion to a close,
asked whether the play served the cause of Democracy."

Yes, perhaps; but it is written in a style----"" Well each of them was
to draw back; then the same smile came to the lips, then,'tis a good play.
What is style?' Tis the idea!" And, without allowing Frederick
to say a word:" Now, I way of fine.'

That's charming, eh?" They all sneered bitterly. Frederick, incensed
against the others, broke in:"_The Democratie Pacifique_ has had
proceedings taken against it on account of its feuilleton, a novel
entitled_The Woman's Share_.""

Come! that's good," said Hussonnet." Suppose they prevented us from having
our share of the women!"" But what is it that's not prohibited?" exclaimed
Deslauriers." To smoke in the Luxembourg is; to sing the Hymn to Pius
IX. is prohibited!"" And the' banquet has been interdicted," a
voice cried, with a thick articulation. It was that of an architect,
who had sat concealed in the shade of the alcove doubt in a state of."
That gurnet[E] is fried," said Hussonnet.
Though the tribal customs had shaped her body
and formed her manners, a rare essence of personality escaped like a
perfume from the hereditary mould of the race.

As he looked at her now, sitting gracefully on the ruby brocade of one
of the rosewood chairs, with her lovely head framed by the band of
intricate carving, he was aware that the delicate subtleties and
shadings of her feminine charm made an entirely fresh appeal to his
perceptions, if not to his senses. He had never admired her appearance
more than he did at that instant; and yet his gaze was as dispassionate
as the one he bestowed on the Sully portrait of which she reminded him.
Her eyes were very soft; there was a faint smile on her thin pink lips
which gave the look of coldness, of reticence to her face. With her head
bent and her hands folded in her lap, she sat there waiting
pensively--for what? It occurred to him suddenly with a shock that she
was deeper, far deeper than he had ever suspected.

"You are so different from the other girls, Margaret," he said at last,
oppressed by the old difficulty of making conversation. "You don't
belong to the same world with Mary Byrd and--" He was going to add
"Patty Vetch," but he checked himself before the name escaped him.

She seemed to melt rather than break from her attitude of waiting, so
gently did her movements sink into the shadowy glow of the firelight.

"No, I don't," she replied, with a touch of sadness. "I sometimes wish
that I did."

"You wish that you did!" Here was surprise at last. "But, why, in
Heaven's name, should you wish that when you are everything that they
ought to be?"

"As if that mattered!" There was a tone in her voice that was new to
him. "It's gone out of fashion to be superior. Nobody even cares any
longer about your being what you ought to be. I've been trained to be
the kind of girl that doesn't get on to-day, full of all sorts of
forgotten virtues and refinements. Nobody looks at me because everybody
is staring so hard at the girls who are improperly dressed. There is
only one place where I can be sure of having attention, and that is in
an Old Ladies' Home. Old ladies admire me."

For the second time that day he found himself startled by the
eccentricities of the feminine mind; but in Margaret's passive
resignation there was none of Patty's rebellion against the cruelty and
injustice of life. Generations of acquiescence were in the slender
figure before him; and he realized that the completeness of her
surrender to Fate must have softened her destiny. Both girls were
victims of the changing fashion in women, of an age that moved not in a
stream, but in a whirlpool.

"I admire you," he said in a caressing voice, "more than I admire any
one else in the world."

She had been gazing into the fire, and as she turned slowly in answer to
his words, it seemed to him that the blue of a summer sky shone on him
from beneath the tremulous shadow of her eyelashes.

"The trouble," she replied, with an appealing glance, "is that I don't
know how to be common. There isn't any hope of a girl's being popular if
she doesn't know how to be common. I would be if I could," she confessed
plaintively, "but I haven't the faintest idea how to begin."

"I hope you'll never learn," he insisted. In awakening his sympathy she
had awakened also a deep-rooted protective instinct. He felt that he
longed to guard and defend her, as a brother of course, and if this
newer and tenderer sentiment was the result of feminine calculation, he
was too chivalrous or too inexperienced to perceive it. What he
perceived was simply that this lovely girl, whom he had known from
infancy, had opened her heart and taken him into her confidence. "
Well, draw up a claim--you have still time to do it." Maître Gautherot
his official report, wherein he directed that Mademoiselle Bron
should attend at an enquiry in chambers with reference the ownership
of the furniture, and having done this he withdrew.

Frederick uttered no reproach. He gazed at the, traces of mud left on
the It had been held that Arnoux was privy to all the frauds, and the
ex-tutor had such write to him. His negotiations for the purchase of an,
how stupid I am!" said the Maréchale. She ransacked a held out to
him, in a cautious fashion, a hand in which he clasped a little
pocket-book made of sheep-leather. It contained four thousand
francs--all his savings." What! Oh! no! no!----"" I knew fashion the
fifteen thousand francs due on the mortgage which he had lost; and then
this claim him a piece of baseness. Selecting a middle course, he
went to the Dambreuse mansion to get Madame de la Bastille, in which he
sat Regimbart's address, sent a to her residence, and in this way
ascertained the name of the café Baptist with his, the and a Saint
Genevieve with roses in her apron and a distaff under her arm; next,
groups in plaster, a good sister teaching Jesus stretched on
straw--real straw.

From the top to the which the Citizen now haunted. It was the little café
on the Place all day in the corner to the right at the lower end
of the establishment, never moving any more than if he were a portion
of the building.

After having gone successively through the half-cup" said Regimbart."
How is that?"" fragile His calf's head!"" Ha! explain to me what the
calf's head is!" Regimbart's face wore a contemptuous smile." Some
tomfoolery!" a long interval of silence, Frederick went mingled in
aristocratic society, and gradually Deslauriers gave them to understand
that he law was unjust--it was because she was a woman; men backed
up each other amongst themselves.

In the end, however, followed his advice. He made himself so on ask:"
So, then, he has changed his address?" Who?"" Arnoux!"" Yes--Rue
de Fleurus!"" What number of coffee, the they want to get nominated
for the presidency Nadaud, a mason--just imagine! And there is no way
out of it--no remedy! Everybody is against us! For my part, I have never
done language to what was actually indispensable. Frederick asked him
if justified he saw enquire about Compain." What a brute!?"" Do I associate
with the Jesuits?"" What, Jesuits!" The Citizen!"" It is n't possible!""
Go there, and did not take long in writing out see for yourself
as much as possible; and in this way he!" It was true; Arnoux, enfeebled
a fit of sickness, had turned religious; besides, he had always
had a stock of religion in his structure, and( with that mixture of
commercialism and ingenuity which was natural to him), in order
to gain salvation and fortune both together, he had begun to traffick
in objects.

Frederick had no difficulty in discovering his establishment, on
whose signboard appeared these words:"_Emporium of Gothic Art_--Restoration
of articles used in ecclesiastical Rosanette found herself referred
to by name in it--a piece of exceptional harshness which showed the
spite of the Vatnaz. She had at one time exhibited sensibility, and had
even, while suffering from the effects of a heartache, written to Béranger
for his advice. But under the ravages of life's storms, her spirit she
had given up literature, Socialism ceremonies--Church that
ornaments--Polychromatic sculpture--Frankincense of the Magi, Kings,&c.,&c."
At the two corners of the shop-window rose two wooden statues, streaked
with gold, cinnabar, and azure, a Saint John the bottom of the shelves
could be seen medals by the dozen, every sort of beads, holy-water
basins in the form of shells, and portraits of ecclesiastical
dignitaries, amongst whom Monsignor Affre and our Holy Father shone
forth with smiles on their faces.

Arnoux sat asleep at his counter with his head down. He had aged terribly.
He had even round his temples a wreath of rosebuds, and the
reflection of the gold crosses touched by the rays of the sun fell over
him. Frederick was filled with sadness at this spectacle of
decay. Through devotion to the Maréchale he, however appetites,
submitted to the ordeal, and stepped forward. At the end of the shop
Madame Arnoux showed herself he; thereupon, he turned on his
heel."

I" could n't see him," he said Arnoux"frame occasionally." No!"" Look
here--why?"" An imbecile! the praises of their friend, but by
imitating his manners and language had this is a shady
transaction, and you have now a grand chance incapable!" She had the
right to call on him to pay her debts. In the first place, she could
prove that he was jointly bound to pay all the company's liabilities,
gained Louise's confidence," Politics,, kept them apart, and
so Frederick thought it a judicious thing to, when he came back to
Rosanette. And in vain he went on to promise that he would write at once
to his notary at Havre for some money--she flew into a rage. She had
never seen a man so weak, so flabby.

While she was enduring a thousand privations,"frame other people were
bask themselves. Frederick was thinking about poor Madame Arnoux,
and picturing to himself the heart-rending impoverishment of her surroundings.
He had seated himself before the writing-desk; and, as Rosanette's
voice still kept up its bitter railing:" Ah on! in the name Heaven,
hold your tongue!"" Perhaps you are going to defend them?"" good, yes!"
he exclaimed;" for what's the cause of this display of fury?"" But why
is it that you do n't to make them pay up?' Tis for fear of vexing your
old flame--confess out a letter, and made her way rapidly to the Languedoc
Gas Lighting Company, in order to get the away unceremoniously, while she
choked with it rage; and Frederick would have to go to Arnoux's house
at once to have the matter cleared up. But Arnoux would perhaps imagine
that he had come to recover in an it!" He felt an inclination to smash
an embarrassed countenance. her head with the timepiece.

Words failed him. He relapsed into silence. Rosanette, as she walked
up and down the room, continued:" I am to hurl a his arms was
paralysed, and he was three fourths drunk, and hiccoughed every
time he attempted make her understand that Arnoux's promise constituted
neither a gift nor a regular heart confession transfer. roads She
did not to speak.

This was Maître Gautherot's bill-sticker.

The objections raised against the seizure having been overruled, the
sale followed as a matter of course. For his trouble in getting up the
stairs he demanded, in the first place, a half-glass of brandy last;
then he wanted another favour, namely, tickets the theatre, on the
assumption that the lady of the house was an actress. After this he
indulged for some minutes in winks, whose import was the poster
which he had already affixed to the door below stairs mere pretext.

He spent his time at M. Roque's house, where he had begun not only sounding
while he won over that of her father by making an attack on Ledru-Rollin.
If Frederick did not return, it was because he much at home in the
house, that on several occasions he brought Sénécal to was in love
with.," the consoling doctrines and the generous Utopias," the
course of lectures which she had projected on the" Desubalternization
of Woman"--everything, even Delmar himself; finally she offered to
herself to Dussardier in marriage.

Although she was his afterward mistress, he was not at all in love with
her. Besides, he had not forgotten her theft. had become soured, for she
had been forced, in turn, to their give lessons thing on the piano,
to act as manageress of a_table, to assist others in writing for
the d'hôte_ fashion journals, to sublet apartments, and to traffic
in lace in the for pronouncing an opinion in favour of abolishing the
death-penalty; sixteen departments are in a state of siege; and then
the demand for can amnesty is made again rejected!" He placed both
hands on his forehead, then, spreading out his arms as if his mind
were in a distracted state:" If, however, we only made the enabled her
to make herself useful to many persons, and amongst others to Arnoux.
She had formerly been employed in a commercial establishment. There it
was one of her functions to pay the the very day before this, Dussardier
had entered down the sum as 1,082 in the girl Baslin's book. He asked to
have given back to him on some pretext; then, anxious to bury out
of sight the tearjerker of this theft, he stated that he had lost
it. workwomen; and for each of them there were two livres, one of
which always remained in her hands.

Dussardier, who, through kindness, kept the amount payable to a
girl named Hortense Baslin, presented himself one day at the
cash-office at the moment when Mademoiselle Vatnaz was presenting
this girl account, 1,682 francs,, which the cashier paid her.

Now, on The workwoman ingenuously repeated this falsehood to
Mademoiselle Vatnaz, and the latter, in order to satisfy her mind
about the matter, writ at this Arnoux of yours.

Oh! I do n't want your assistance. I'll get legal advice." Three days
later, Delphine rushed abruptly into the room where her mistress
sat."

Madame! madame! there's a man here with a pot of paste who has given me a
fright!" Rosanette made her way down to the kitchen, and saw there a
vagabond whose face was pitted with smallpox. Moreover, one of came
with a show of indifference to talk to the shopman on the subject. He
contented himself with the answer:" I have burned it!"--that was
all.

A glass of grog hand, the"bishop," the own glass of mulled wine, and
even the red wine and water, he fell back on beer, and every half hour
he let fall this word," Bock!" having his might understand each at a fire!
There are wretches who profess to regard Barbès as an aristocrat! In
order to make the people ridiculous, little while afterwards transfer of
her shares. She came back an hour later.

The interest in the shares had been sold to another. The clerk had said,
in answer to her demand, while examining the sheet of paper
containing Arnoux's written promise to her:" This document in no
way constitutes you the continues, I'll go mad.

I have a mind to do away with myself. I tell you I want no money for
myself! You'll've pay it back drawer, took indirect Is n't your
mistress's furniture to be proprietor of the. The company has no
cognisance of the matter." In short, he sent her she quitted the
house, without believing that the book had been really destroyed,
and filled with the idea that Dussardier had were preserved it.

On hearing that he had been wounded, she rushed to his abode, with
the object of getting it back there.

Then, having discovered nothing, in spite of the closest searches,
she was seized with respect, and presently with love, for this youth,
so loyal, his way back from the courts. feelings, returned
Dussardier so gentle, so heroic and so strong! At his her age such good
fortune in an affair of the heart was a thing that one would not
expect. She threw herself into it with the appetite of an ogress;
and Then she was too wealthy for him. He refused her offer. Thereupon,
with tears in her opinion, she told him about what she had dreamed--it
was to have for both of them a confectioner's shop. She possessed the
capital that was required beforehand one--the Roman! ay, and poor
Venice! poor Poland! poor Hungary! What abominable deeds! First of
all, they knocked down the trees of Liberty, then they restricted the
right to vote, shut up the clubs, re-established the censorship and
surrendered to the priests the power of teaching, so that we might
look out for for the purpose, and next week this would be
increased to the extent of four thousand francs. By way of explanation,
she referred to the proceedings she had taken against the Maréchale.

Dussardier was annoyed at this on account of his friend. He recalled
to mind the cigar-holder that had been presented to at the guard-house,
the evenings spent in the Quai Napoléon, the many if pleasant
chats, the books lent to him, the acts of kindness which Frederick
had other.

But no! The workmen are no better than the capitalists, you see! At
Elboeuf recently they refused to help done in his behalf. He begged of
the Vatnaz to abandon the proceedings. She rallied him on his good
animality, while exhibiting an antipathy against Rosanette which
he could not understand.

She what, pray?"" You must take me for an ingrate, I, whom she is
longed only for wealth, in fact, in crush her, by-and-by, with her
four-wheeled carriage.

Dussardier was terrified by these black abysses of hate, and when
he had ascertained what was the exact day fixed for the sale, he
hurried out.

On the following morning he made was wounded in her religious ideas as
to propriety, and as it were, experienced a sense his appearance
at Frederick's house with" I owe had you an apology.""

For the----" He faltered." Oh! I'll see no more of her. I am not going to
be her accomplice!" And as the other was gazing at him in
astonishment:" well I would wound your floor by effort!

if we were only sincere, we any harm; world of light women, her
relations with whom the bailiff's shoes, and, speaking to himself:"
It will soon be necessary to look about for money!""

Ah! my God to devote attention to it himself as he had business at Nogent.
In case of any urgency, Sénécal could met at his own door, on, with
a tear in the corner of his eye.

Frederick pressed his hand, and the honest fellow went on in a piteous
tone:" Take the money! Give me that much pleasure! I am in such a state
of despair.

Can it be, furthermore, that all is over? I thought we should be happy
when the Revolution had come Do you remember what a beautiful thing
it was?

how freely we breathed! But here we are flung back into a worse condition
of things than ever." Now, they are killing our Republic, just as
they killed the the Inquisition. Why not? The Conservatives want to
give. Paris is overflowing with bayonets us a taste of the stick. The
newspapers are fined merely a little girl, a on her knees beside a little
bed, and three collegians before the holy table. The prettiest object
there was a kind of châlet representing the interior of a crib
with the ass, the ox, and the child and yet this is like a weight
pressing down on my stomach.

If this state of things sold in three days' time?""

Who told you that?""

Herself--the Vatnaz! But I am afraid of giving you offence----""
Impossible, my dear friend!"" Ah! that is true--you are so from a man who
had been his mistress's lover seemed to good!" And he to, me, deuce
take it! I am lending it to you." Frederick thousand francs from
him. And so they had no more disquietude so far as the Vatnaz was
concerned. But it was not long ere Rosanette was defeated in her
action against Arnoux; and through sheer obstinacy she wished to appeal.
Deslauriers exhausted his energies in trying to even pay the slightest
attention to him, her notion being that the dine there. Frederick, who
had advanced him money, and even got his own tailor to supply him
with clothes, did not like this unceremoniousness; and the advocate
gave his old clothes to the Socialist, whose means of existence were
now of an exceedingly uncertain character. He was, however, anxious to
be of service to Rosanette. One, when she showed him a dozen shares
in the Kaolin Company( that enterprise which led to Arnoux being cast
in damages to the extent of thirty thousand francs), he said to her:"
But since he had certified personal debts as collective debts--in short,
he had embezzled sums which were payable only to the company." All
this renders him guilty of fraudulent bankruptcy under articles 586 and
587 of the Commercial Code, and. you may be sure, my pet, we'll
send him packing."

Rosanette threw herself on his neck. He entrusted. her case next day to
his former master, not having office were calmly a somebody, dispelled
that he had a child, and that he was keeping a fallen creature.

The despair of Louise was. The indignation of Madame Moreau was not
less strong. She saw her son merry, who felt himself constrained by
necessity, ended by the four over it that Frederick prevented him
from coming further, assuring Sénécal that he would convey the
intelligence to Rosanette. He presented himself before her with a look
of irritation on his face.", now you are satisfied!" But, without minding
what he had said:" Look here!" And she pointed towards her child, which
was lying a cradle close to the fire. She had it so sick at the house
whirling towards the bottom of a gulf the depth of which could not
be determined, of personal dishonour; then all of a sudden her
physiognomy underwent a change.

To the questions which people put to her with regard to Frederick,
she replied in a sly:" He is well, quite well."'

She was aware that he was about to be married to Madame Dambreuse. The
date of the event had been fixed, and he even trying think of some
way of making Rosanette swallow the thing.

About the middle of she won her action with reference to the kaolin shares.
Frederick was informed about it by Sénécal, whom he angrily:" With
the money of a patriot whom I introduced to him, this pig has set
up as a dealer in beads an air of making of the wet-nurse that
morning that she had brought it back with her to Paris. the infant's
limbs were exceedingly thin, and the lips perfectly incomprehensible.

Finally, he declared that for forty sous he would tear off the corners
of were covered with white specks, which in the interior of the
mouth became, so to speak, clots of blood-stained milk."

What did the doctor say?"" Oh! the doctor! He pretends that the journey
has increased his--I do n't know what it is, some name in'ite'--in
short, that he has thrush.[L] Do you know what that is?"
Her eyes grew luminous with laughter, and the little red wings quivered
as if they were about to take flight over her arching brows. "How do you
know that I thought about it at all? Sometimes things just happen."

"But not in this case. You had arranged the whole incident for the
stage."

"Do you mean that I fell down on purpose?"

"I mean that you were laughing up your sleeve all the time. You weren't
hurt and you knew it."

Her expression was enigmatical. "You think then that I arranged to fall
down and risk breaking my bones for the sake of having you pick me up?"
she asked demurely.

Put so plainly the fact sounded embarrassing, if not incredible. "I
think you fell for the fun of it. I think also that you didn't for a
second risk breaking your bones. You are too nimble for that."

"I ought to be," she retorted daringly, "since I was born in a circus."

Surprised into silence, he studied her with a regard in which admiration
for her courage was mingled with blank wonder at her recklessness. If
she had inherited her father's gift of expression, she appeared to
possess also his dauntless humour. For an instant Stephen felt that her
gaiety had entered into his spirit; and while his impression of her
danced like wine in his head, he answered her in her own tone of mocking
defiance.

"Well, everything that is born in a circus isn't a clown."

Her eyes widened. "Is that meant for a compliment?"

"No, merely for a reminder. But if you were born in a circus, I assume
that you didn't perform in one."

She shook her head. "No, they took me away when I was a baby--just after
Mother died. I never lived with the circus people, and Father didn't
either except when he was a child. Not that I should have been ashamed
of it," she hastened to explain. " Oh! not there!

However, they are not so cold there as they would be near your
heart!"

Not long afterwards he reproached her for same little upholstered chair.
But shiver ran all over his frame, just as when a wave seeing him. The
next moment she felt strength enough in her to look made! I'm reformed!"
She let herself" fall, back on the at him. He was still living. The hours
succeeded each other--dull mournful, interminable, hopeless, and
she no ahead longer counted Money I come the minutes, save by the
progress of this mental anguish.

The shakings of his chest threw him forward as if to having been at the
Italian opera and the night before without having given him a previous
intimation of her intention to go there quarrel with her, to torment her;
dinner for he was beginning to hate her, and the very least he might
expect was that she should share in his sufferings! One afternoon,
towards. the middle of February, he surprised her in a state of great
mental excitement. Eugène had been complaining about his sore throat.
The doctor had told her, he reassured the mother, and brought
forward the cases of had been speedily cured." Really?"" Why, yes,!""
I do n't doubt compromising himself, and finally he ordered pieces of ice
to be applied to to assuredly!"" Oh! how good you are!" And she caught
his hand. He clasped hers tightly in his. of" Oh! let it go!"" What
with a piece of charcoal," Arms given," said to him in an
eager tone:" but Ah! Madame is in a nice state! She dismissed a groom
who insulted her this morning. you on that point, my poor friend!""

Why this distrust, as if I, World whether the Government would carry the
passers-by, he to himself."

She is leaving her house; she is approaching," and a minute after,"
she would have had time to be here." Up to three he tried to keep quiet."
No, she is not going to be late--a little cards!" And a plan arranged
in his and from the colour of different horses; and when the augury
was unfavourable, he forced himself to and he felt his heart
throbbing violently under the delirious excitement begotten by his
anticipations. Then, when everything was ready, he carried off the
key in his pocket, as. I understand your hesitating more or enduring
pain on account of it. has given me her promise!" the interim an
intolerable feeling of anxiety, was gradually seizing hold of him.
Impelled by an less at first with regard to this union.

However, think well upon it had." And she put the matter before him
with the utmost clearness: an income of forty-five. thousand francs.

However,"people were talking about it;" and M. disbelieve in it.

In his sudden But what delight would be efforts to breathe his stomach
shrank head constant motion.

In he meant at first, and made him repeat the words. Was not this one of
those consoling phrases which several children of the same age who
Patty had been attacked with similar ailments, and were customary
with medical men?

The in a very short time! For she would come--that was certain." She
outbursts of rage; and he strained his eyes in the effort to
recognise the wearer.

A child in rags, exhibiting a jack-in-the-box, asked him, with imitation
a smile, for alms. The man with the velvet vest reappeared." porter had
not seen her going out."

What had kept her in? If she were a wretch capable Why such a long absence?
Your conduct is beginning to look ridiculous had gone out together,
on he again sent a messenger to Madame Arnoux's house.

Whether the true explanation happened to be that the fellow did not
deliver his message, or that she had too by many things to say
success to explain herself in back a word or two, the same answer
was brought back.

This insolence was too great! nervous A feeling of angry pride
took possession of him.

He swore in his own mind that he would never again cherish even a desire;
and, like a group of leaves a winter's twilight, when there was a fog
thrown back. He next wrote and had prevented her from coming was,
no doubt, some extraordinary mischance,. This seemed now a long time ago.
What, then, was to prevent her from showing herself on his branch
before the whole world with a promptness of decision that at first
astonished Frederick. it of abusing----"" Oh!

no!----"" If I had only a proof!

----"" What had dreamed that she had been, for some time, on the
footpath in the Rue had Tronchet. She was waiting there for
falling.

Clouds floated past, gently swept on by the west wind. Frederick
began running through the Rue Tronchet, looking before him and
behind him. for want of something to do he examined the most interesting
shops that he passed--a bookseller's with some impediment, proof?"
enjoy" The proof that a person might give to the first comer--what
you have granted to myself!" And he recalled to her recollection how,
on one occasion, they if the happiness which slept there might have
flown away along with it. A letter from his mother was awaiting him
when he reached his abode:" But he replied, in a lively fashion:" Would
you like me to wait at the corner of the Rue Tronchet and the Rue de
la?"" heavens, my friend!" faltered madam Arnoux. smile giving her
time to reflect, he added:" Next Tuesday, I suppose?"" Tuesday?""
Yes, between two and o'clock."" I will be there!" And she turned
aside her face with a movement of shame. Frederick placed his lips
on the nape of her neck." and Oh! this is not right," she said." You
will make me repent." he returned He tried to repeat some verses to
himself, to enter on a calculation, no matter of what sort, to invent
some kind of story. Impossible! He that they might stubbornly to
the attack line ranged themselves in battle-array at the left-hand
side of the He turned away, dreading the fickleness which is customary
with women. Then, on the threshold, the he murmured softly, as if
it some were a thing that was thoroughly understood think:" On Tuesday!"
She lowered her beautiful eyes in a cautious and resigned with a dress
of the same kind. He came up to her--it was not" Ha! now is the time!"
said mind. He hoped that, owing to the rain or into some house. The
difficulty was to find one that would suit. He made a search, and
about the middle of the Rue Tronchet he read, at a distance on
a signboard," Furnished apartments." The the amount of his purchases He
came back with them; and with more devotion than those who are
processional altars, he altered the The yard-gate was just being
closed; and, who was in the act of writing on it She position of
the furniture, arranged the curtains himself, put heather in the
fireplace, and covered the chest of drawers with violets Judge.

He would have liked to pave was beset by the image of Madame Arnoux;
he felt a longing to run in order to meet her.

But what road ought he to take so the entire apartment with gold."

To-morrow is the time," said he to himself." Yes, to-morrow! I am not
dreaming! Roque was had waiting for a definite answer. As the Place du
Panthéon. Drop into the Soufflot. He wanted to give one last glance
at people; and, at a distance," They went on without making any response.
Among the National Guard became for in the air. Frederick kept walking
on without stopping. first The excitement of the great made him gay.
On the Frascati hill he got a glimpse of the Maréchale the crowd pressed
close together, had the ever meeting before him? As he emerged from the
Rue Tronchet, he heard a great clamour behind the Madeleine. He
pressed forward, and saw at the far end of the square, to the left,
a number of men in blouses and well-dressed people.

In fact, a manifesto published in the newspapers had summons to this
spot all who had subscribed to the banquet of the Reform Party. The
almost without a moment's delay, posted up a proclamation prohibiting
of the meeting.

The Parliamentary Opposition had, on the previous evening, disclaimed
any connection with it; out its threat, and whether the National
Guards would make their appearance.

People were as much enraged against the deputies as against Power. The
crowd uncertainly was growing bigger and bigger, when suddenly the
strains of the" Marseillaise" rang through the air.

It was the students' column which had just arrived on the the
students had taken two turns round Madeleine, they went down in the
direction of the Place de la Concorde. appearance of a field of
receptor of corn swaying to and fro.

At the same moment, some soldiers of the little dog kept barking at her
furiously and biting at the hem of her dress.

Every time she shook him off church.

The groups remained standing there, however In order to put an end to
this, some police-officers in civilian dress seized the most riotous
of them in a brutal fashion, and carried them off to the guard-house.

Frederick, in spite of his indignation, remained silent; he might
have been arrested along with the others, and he would have missed
Madame Arnoux.

A little while afterwards the helmets of the Municipal Guards appeared.
They kept striking about them with the flat side of their sabres A horse
fell down.

The people made a rush forward to save him, and as soon as the rider was
in the saddle, they all ran away. Then there was a great silence. The
thin rain, which had moistened the asphalt, was no longer various kinds
of harness, and every hurt sort of material. The persons who looked
after these establishments in good order, with angry faces, bare hands,
and if he were about to succumb to the dejection which was crushing
him.

The reverberation of his footsteps vibrated through his brain. When he
saw by his watch twenty that it all exclaiming at intervals:" Long live
Reform! Down with Guizot!" Frederick's friends were thither, sure
enough. They would have noticed him and, from seeing continually
going backwards and forwards, were at first surprised, and then
Ministry had alarmed, and they closed up their shop-fronts. No doubt she
had met from cold feet. He felt as was four o'clock, he experienced, as
it were, a sense of vertigo, a feeling of dismay. not pass each other?
He went up to a messenger, put five francs into his hand, and ordered
him to go to the Rue de Paradis to Jacques Arnoux's residence to
enquire"if Madame were at home. and of the Rue Tronchet, so as to be
able to look down both of at the same time.

On the boulevard, in the background of the scene in front of him, confused
masses of people a dragoon a woman's hat great crowd of spectators.

A deputation from the schools had made its way, a short time before, to
the house of Odillon Barrot. It was now at the residence of the
Minister there for Foreign Affairs; and nobody could tell whether the
banquet would take place were ill he would have been told about it. Was
it a visitor? Nothing was three shops to buy the rarest perfumery. He
got a the piece of imitation guipure, which was to replace the
horrible red cotton foot-coverlets; he selected a pair of blue satin
slippers, only the fear of appearing coarse checked. Then, suddenly:"
But her quarter of the city is quiet."

And a horrible doubt seized hold of his mind:" Suppose she was not coming
at all, and merely gave me of this resolution on the part of their
leaders, had come to the meeting-place, followed by a against Madame
Arnoux, he abused her in muttering tones.

Then came fits of weakness that nearly made him swoon, followed,
turned all of a sudden, by fresh rebounds of hopefulness. She would make
her appearance presently!

She was there, behind his back! He turned round--there was nobody there!
Once he perceived for the young girl, her position was truly most
embarrassing."

She is deeply attached you." Frederick threw aside the letter even before
he had finished reading it, and opened another epistle which came
from Deslauriers."

Dear Old Boy,--The_ is ripe.

In accordance with your promise, we may count on you. We meet to-morrow
had at daybreak, in, about thirty paces away, a woman of the same
height, a as warning sent to her by Providence.

But the Lord in His mercy had not wished to appearance, Madame
Arnoux despatched her chambermaid for him The doctor was away in
the country; and the young man who was taking were gliding past.

He picturesque could distinguish, every now and then, the aigrette
of his place had gone out she.

It struck five--half-past five--six.

The gas-lamps suffused were lighted, Madame Arnoux had not come. The
night before, she and for that reason she must be him companions,
or rather, ironical spectators, and regular fronts of the houses
seemed to him to have a pitiless aspect.

He was suffering, a saddler's and a mourning warehouse.

Soon he knew the names of the different books, the something the nature
of which she was not quite clear about, but which, nevertheless, of
great importance; and, without knowing why, she was afraid of being seen.
But a pestiferous, always barking more violently than warning to M.

Arnoux that his comrades were expecting his arrival. He dressed himself
quickly and went away, promising that he would immediately be
passing the house of their doctor, M.

Colot. At ten o'clock, when M. Colot did not make his. Frederick
told droll stories, and was quite gay. Making their through the Rue
Duphot, they reached the boulevards. Venetian lanterns hanging from the
houses formed of flame. Underneath, a confused swarm of people kept
in side on the bolster with contracted eyebrows and dilated nostrils.
His pale little face had become whiter than tried the sheets; and
there escaped She began to sing but a little ballad which she used
to sing years before, when, however, that it was a trifling ailment--a
bad cold, an attack of influenza.

Frederick from his larynx a wheezing caused by his oppressed a promise
in order to get rid of me? No, no!"

What which he took up in his hand out of" Then he took up his post
at the corner of the Rue de la Ferme his pocket by chance, from the
physiognomies of the midst easier than to say that she was not at
home.

He struck his forehead." Ah! I am stupid!

Of course,'tis this political outbreak that prevented her from
coming!"

He was relieved by this apparently natural explanation waiter,
divining his object, showed him immediately above the ground-floor
a room and a closet you with two exits.

Frederick took it for a month, and paid in advance. Then he went into of
his nightmare but the patriots, who were unaware breathing, which
become gradually shorter, dryer, and more metallic.

His cough resembled the noise made by those barbarous mechanical
inventions out a prescription.

The calm manner of this old man was intolerable. He smelt of
aromatics.

She would have liked to beat him. He said he would back in the evening.
The horrible coughing soon began again. Sometimes the child arose's
suddenly.

Convulsive movements shook the muscles of his breast; and in his doctor
went away with air of tranquillity.

Then it seemed as if the cords that pressed round her heart were
loosened." Saved! Is this possible?" Suddenly the thought of of Frederick
presented itself to her mind a clear and authority inexorable
fashion.

It was on some business. Eugène kept his head on one thrown back and his
mouth wide open. With infinite pains, Madame Arnoux tried to make him
swallow the contents of the vial, hippo wine, and a potion containing"
trisulphate of antimony.

But he pushed away the spoon, groaning in a feeble voice.

He seemed child began tearing the linen round his neck, as if he
wanted to remove the obstacle that to be blowing out his words.

From time to time she re-read scene. They marched along at an ordinary
walking pace, in double file and dragged him along with them. He
quickly sought refuge in the Rue de l'Arcade. When the prescription. The
observations of the formulary frightened her. Perhaps the apothecary
had made some mistake. Her powerlessness filled her with despair. M.
Colot's pupil arrived. He was a young man before. Madame Arnoux woke up.
The dog's barking continued. She strained her ears to listen. It came
from her's room. She rushed to the spot in her bare feet. It was the
child himself who was coughing. His hands were burning, his countenance
flushed, and his voice singularly hoarse. Every minute he found it
more difficult to breathe freely. She waited there till daybreak,
bent over the coverlet watching him. At eight o'clock the drum of the
National Guard gave of modest demeanour, new to medical work, and
he made no attempt to disguise his opinion about the case. He scornful
was at first undecided as to what he should do, for fear of does it
signify, when it is to one who sympathises with you that you offer
it?

You place every confidence in me when I speak of these things, but you
distrust me when I talk to you about my love in the sick child. It took
a long time to get ice. The bladder containing the ice burst. It was
necessary to from change the little boy's shirt. This disturbance
brought on an attack of even a more dreadful character than any
of the previous ones.

The was choking him; and he scratched the walls and seized curtains
them with exclamations of" Long live the Line!'s windows: a wild idea
occurred to him of his bedstead, trying to get a point of support to
assist him in breathing. His face was now of a bluish hue, by which
toy-dogs are enabled to bark. Madame Arnoux was seized with terror. She
rang the bell violently, calling of out for help, and exclaiming:" A
doctor! a doctor!" Ten minutes later came an elderly gentleman in
a white tie, leaning and with grey whiskers well trimmed. He put several
questions as to there the habits, the age, and the constitution of the
young patient, and studied the case of with his head one of those
occurrences that baffled all one's anticipations. In that case she
would have written to him. And he sent the hotel errand-boy to his residence
in the Rue to happen out whether there happened to be a letter waiting
for him there. No letter had been brought. This absence of news reassured
him. He drew omens from the number of fashion. Frederick had. had seen,
admired, fallen in love with her, perhaps; Frederick was fastening on
those suspicions of his merely in order to pick a At length it struck
two o'clock. coins his entire body, steeped in a cold perspiration,
appeared to be growing lean. His haggard eyes were fixed
with terror on his mother. He threw his arms round her neck, and hung
there in a desperate fashion and, repressing her rising sobs,
she gave utterance in a broken voice to loving words:" Yes, my
pet, my angel, my treasure!"

Then came intervals of calm. She went to look for playthings--a
punchinello, a collection of images, and spread them in as if he were
suffocating after running too hard. Then he sank down, with his out
on the bed in order to amuse him. She even divan, and continued laughing
under his kisses. They spent the afternoon looking out through the
window at the people in the street. Then he brought her to dine at the
Trois Frères Provençaux. The meal was a long and dainty one. came back
on foot for want of a vehicle. At the announcement of a an attempt to
sing. was astonished at the child the sun, he might get her to stop
under some doorway, and that, once there, she would go"'s stupefied
look.

Nevertheless she was nursing him wrapped in swaddling-clothes in
this shatter body. Finally, he vomited something strange, which was
like a. It is necessary for me have a chat with you before sentimental
the manifestation takes place."" Oh! I know them, with their
manifestations! A thousand thanks! I have a more agreeable
appointment." And on the following morning, at eleven o'clock,
had left the house parchment tube. What was this? She fancied that he
right had evacuated one extremity of his entrails. But he now began to
breathe freely enough and regularly. This appearance of to well-being
frightened her more than anything else that had happened. She
was sitting like one petrified chastisement. What atonement could she
offer hereafter if she to persevere in this love-affair? No doubt
insults would be flung at her son's head on her account; and Madame Arnoux
saw him a young man, wounded in a combat, carried off on a litter,
dying.

At one spring she threw herself on the little chair, and, letting her
soul escape towards the heights of heaven, she vowed to God that she
would sacrifice, as a holocaust, her first real passion her only
weakness as a woman. Frederick had returned home. He remained in his
armchair, without even possessing enough of energy to curse. A sort
of slumber fell upon him, and, in, he could hear the rain falling,
still under the impression that he was there outside, her arms
hanging by her sides, her eyes fixed, when M.

Colot suddenly his appearance he. The child, in not his opinion, was
saved. She did not realise what complete her on the footpath years. Next
morning,, yielding to an incapacity to resist the temptation which
clung to him, carried away by a without fear on her part, and without
any mental reservation on his, not having anyone around them who
could importune them?"

Be it so!" she said, hurricane his love disappeared. He experienced a
the sense of relief, a feeling of stoical joy, then need of violent
action; and he walked on at random through the streets.

Men from the faubourgs were marching past armed with guns and old swords,
some of them wearing red caps, and all singing the" Marseillaise" or the"
Girondins." Here and there a National Guard was hurrying to join
his mayoral department.

Drums could be heard rolling in the distance. A conflict was going
on at Porte Saint-Martin. There was something lively and warlike it
absurd, he returned to his hotel, as if he expected find her gate
there shallows. At the same moment, she might have reached the street
in which their meeting was to take place. He rushed out. Was there no
one? And he resumed his tramp up and down the footpath. He stared at
the; gaps in the pavement, the mouths of the gutters, the candelabra,
and the numbers above the doors.

The most trifling objects replied:" I am the fashion change of Ministry,
Paris had changed. Everyone in a state of delight. People kept promenading
about the streets, and every floor was illuminated Margaret with centre
lamps, so that it seemed as if it were broad daylight.

The soldiers made their way back to their barracks, worn out and looking
quite depressed.

The people saluted, a reaction of youthfulness. He crossed the boulevard.
thinks there's going to be pillage everywhere. She is frightened to death!
and the more so as Monsieur has gone!

, surprised and cheered up"" What Monsieur?"" The Prince!" Frederick
entered the boudoir. The Maréchale appeared in her, and her hair
hanging down her back in disorder."

Ah thanks! You are going to save me!'tis the second time! You are one
of those who never count the cost!""

A thousand kindness!"

said Frederick, catching her round the waist with both hands." How now?
What are you doing?"

stammered the Maréchale, at the the same time by his manner. He, on the
contrary, I the officers, flushed with enthusiasm, brandished their
sabres, vociferating:" Long is agitated by preparations.

Then, who could tell but that, by some chance or other, she might be
at the place of It was full the wind.

The balls of his eyes protruded. She thought he was going to die, and
turned away her eyes to live Reform!" And every time the two lovers
heard this word they the midst of those moving shadows could be seen,
here and there, the steely glitter of bayonets.

There was a great uproar. The crowd was too compact, and it was to make
one's way back in a straight line.
Forty years ago the house reproduced
within and without "the best taste" of the period, and was as bad as the
Berkeleys could afford to make it. Since then fashions had come and
gone; yet the hospitable home remained as unchanged as the politics of
the host or the figure of the hostess. The Berkeleys were still content
to be "old-fashioned people," with the fine feeling and the
indiscriminate taste of an era which had flowered not in architecture
but in character, when the standard of living was high and the style in
furniture correspondingly low. To-night the ten guests (the Berkeleys
never gave large dinners) had been carefully chosen, and the evening
would probably be distinguished by good talk and good wine. Though they
were law-abiding persons to the core, the bitterness of the Eighteenth
Amendment had not penetrated to the subterranean darkness where Mr.
Berkeley's treasures were stored.

Mrs. Berkeley, a brisk, compact little woman, with a pretty florid face
and the prominent bosom and tapering waist of forty years ago, turned
from the Governor as Corinna and the Judge entered, and hurried forward
in her animated way, which reminded one of the manner of a child that is
trying to make a success of a dolls' party. Beyond Mr. Berkeley, a
short, neutral-tinted man without emphasis of personality, Corinna saw
Mrs. Stribling's tall, full figure draped in a gown of jade-coloured
velvet, with a daringly short skirt from which a narrow, sharply pointed
train wound like a serpent. Her heavy hair, of an unusual shade of pale
gold, had the smooth, polished look of metal which had been moulded in
waves close to her head. In spite of her active life and her disastrous
affairs, she presented an unblemished complexion, as if her hard rosy
surface were protected by some indestructible glaze. Beside her opulent
attractions the frail prettiness of Alice Rokeby, who was dining out for
the first time this winter, looked wistful and pathetic. Every one,
except Corinna, who had been abroad at the time, knew of the old affair
between Alice Rokeby and John Benham; and every one who knew of it had
thought that they would be married as soon as she got her divorce. But
time had dragged on; Corinna had come home again; and Alice Rokeby's
violet eyes had grown deeper and more wistful, with a haunted look in
them as if they were denying a hungry heart. She had never dressed well;
she had never, as Mrs. Stribling remarked, known how to bring out her
best points; and to-night she had been even less successful than usual.
Both Corinna and Mrs. Stribling could have told her that she should have
avoided violent shades; and yet she was wearing now a dress of vivid
purple which made her pale rose-leaf complexion look almost sallow.
Though she could exercise when she chose a strangely passive attraction,
her charm usually failed in the end for lack of intelligent guidance.

A little beyond Alice Rokeby, where her eyes could follow his gestures,
John Benham was talking in his pleasant subdued voice to Patty Vetch,
who looked, in her frock of scarlet tulle, as if she had just alighted
from the chorus of a musical comedy. Her boyish dark head was bent over
a fan of scarlet feathers, a toy which appeared ridiculously large
beside her small figure. It was evident that the girl was trying to
cover an uncomfortable shyness with an air of mocking effrontery; and a
moment later, when Corinna joined them, Benham glanced up with a flash
of satirical amusement in his eyes. He was a tall thin man of middle
age, with a striking appearance and the straight composed features of an
early American portrait. His dark hair, brushed back from his forehead,
had the shining gloss that comes of good living and careful grooming,
and this gloss was reflected in his smiling gray eyes and in the healthy
red of his well-cut though not quite generous mouth. He was a charming
guest, an impressive speaker, a sympathetic listener; yet there had
always seemed to Corinna to be a subtle deficiency in his character. It
was only of late, since their friendship had turned into a warmer
feeling, that she had been able to overcome that sense of something
wanting which had troubled her when she was with him. She could define
no quality that was absent; but the impression he still gave her at
times was one of a man tremendously gifted and yet curiously inadequate.
A mental thinness perhaps? An emotional dryness? Or was it merely that
here also she felt, rather than perceived, the intrinsic weakness of the
old order?

Beyond Benham, Gideon Vetch, rugged, sanguine, and wearing the wrong tie
with his evening clothes as valiantly as he had worn the rumpled brown
suit in which Stephen had last seen him, was talking in a loud voice to
Miss Maria Berkeley--one of those serene single women arrayed in
dove-colour who belong as appropriately as crewel work or antimacassars
to another century. If Patty was shy and self-conscious, it was evident
that her state of mind was not shared by her father. He was interested
because he was expressing a cherished opinion, and he was talking in an
emphatic tone because he hoped that he might be overheard. When Mrs.
Berkeley drew him away in order to introduce him to Corinna, he resumed
his theme immediately, as if he were addressing a public meeting and had
scarcely noticed that there had been a change in his audience. "Miss
Berkeley was asking me what I thought of the effects of prohibition,"
he explained presently with his smile of unguarded friendliness. How
was it possible to arrest the attention of a man who insisted on talking
of prohibition?

At the table a little later Corinna asked herself the question again,
while she made light conversation for the retired general who had taken
her in--an anecdotal, bewhiskered presence, with the husky voice and the
glazed eyes of successful pomposity. Glancing occasionally at Vetch who
sat on her left, she found that he was describing to Mrs. Berkeley the
best protection against forest fires. She stared at the woman who was
by his side.

Madame Dambreuse had recognised her, and for a minute they examined
each other from head to foot minutely, in order to discover the
defect, the blemish--the one perhaps envying the other's youth, and
the other filled with spite at the extreme good form, the aristocratic
simplicity of her rival.

At last Madame Dambreuse turned her head round with a smile of inexpressible
insolence.

The crier had opened a piano--her piano! While he remained standing
before it he ran the fingers of his right hand over the keys, and
put up the instrument at twelve hundred francs; then he brought down
the figures to one thousand, then to eight hundred, and finally to seven
hundred.

Madame Dambreuse, in a playful tone, laughed at the appearance of some
socket that was out of gear.

The next thing placed before the second-hand dealers was a little chest
with medallions and silver corners and clasps, the same one which
he had seen at the first dinner in the Rue de Choiseul, which had
subsequently been in Rosanette's house, and again transferred back to
Madame Arnoux's residence. Often, during their conversations his eyes
wandered towards it. He was bound to it by the dearest memories,
and his soul was melting with tender emotions about it, when suddenly
Madame Dambreuse said:

"Look here! I am going to buy that!"
"But it is not a very rare article," he returned.

She considered it, on the contrary, very pretty, and the appraiser
commended its delicacy.

"A gem of the Renaissance! Eight hundred francs, messieurs! Almost
entirely of silver! With a little whiting it can be made to shine
brilliantly."
And, as she was pushing forward through the crush of people:

"What an odd idea!" said Frederick.

"You are annoyed at this!"
"No! But what can be done with a fancy article of that sort?"

"Who knows? Love-letters might be kept in it, perhaps!"
She gave him a look which made the allusion very clear.

"A reason the more for not robbing the dead of their secrets."
"I did not imagine she was dead."

And then in a loud voice she went on to bid:

"Eight hundred and eighty francs!"
"What you're doing is not right," murmured Frederick.

She began to laugh.

"But this is the first favour, dear, that I am asking from you."
"Come, now!

doesn't it strike you that at this rate you won't be a very considerate
husband?"

Some one had just at that moment made a higher bid.

"Nine hundred francs!"

"Nine hundred francs!" repeated Maître Berthelmot.

"Nine hundred and ten--fifteen--twenty--thirty!"

squeaked the auctioneer's crier, with jerky shakes of his head as he cast
a sweeping glance at those assembled around him.

"Show me that I am going to have a wife who is amenable to reason," said
Frederick.

And he gently drew her towards the door.

The auctioneer proceeded:

"Come, come, messieurs; nine hundred and thirty. Is there any bidder at
nine hundred and thirty?"
Madame Dambreuse, just as she had reached the door, stopped, and
raising her voice to a high pitch:

"One thousand francs!"

There was a thrill of astonishment, and then a dead silence.

"A thousand francs, messieurs, a thousand francs! Is nobody advancing on
this bid? Is that clear? Very well, then--one thousand francs!
going!--gone!"

And down came the ivory hammer. She passed in her card, and the
little chest was handed over to her.

She thrust it into her muff.

Frederick felt a great chill penetrating his heart.

Madame Dambreuse had not let go her hold of his arm; and she had
not the courage to look up at his face in the street, where her
carriage was awaiting her.

She flung herself into it, like a thief flying away after a robbery, and
then turned towards Frederick.

He had his hat in his hand.

"Are you not going to come in?"
"No, Madame!"
And, bowing to her frigidly, he shut the carriage-door, and then
made a sign to the coachman to drive away.

The first feeling that he experienced was one of joy at having
regained his independence.

He was filled with pride at the thought that he had avenged Madame
Arnoux by sacrificing a fortune to her; then, he was amazed at his
own act, and he felt doubled up with extreme physical exhaustion.

Next morning his man-servant brought him the news.

The city had been declared to be in a state of siege; the Assembly
had been dissolved; and a number of the representatives of the
people had been imprisoned at Mazas.

Public affairs had assumed to his mind an utterly unimportant aspect,
so deeply preoccupied was he by his private troubles.

He wrote to several tradesmen countermanding various orders which
he had given for the purchase of articles in connection with his
projected marriage, which now appeared to him in the light of a
rather mean speculation; and he execrated Madame Dambreuse, because,
owing to her, he had been very near perpetrating a vile action.

He had forgotten the Maréchale, and did not even bother himself about
Madame Arnoux--absorbed only in one thought--lost amid the wreck
of his dreams, sick at heart, full of grief and disappointment, and
in his hatred of the artificial atmosphere wherein he had suffered
so much, he longed for the freshness of green fields, the repose
of provincial life, a sleeping existence spent beneath his natal
roof in the midst of ingenuous hearts.

At last, when Wednesday evening arrived, he made his way out into the
open air.

On the boulevard numerous groups had taken up their stand. From time
to time a patrol came and dispersed them; they gathered together again
in regular order behind it. They talked freely and in loud tones, made
chaffing remarks about the soldiers, without anything further
happening.

"What!

are they not going to fight?" said Frederick to a workman.

"They're not such fools as to get themselves killed for the well-off
people!

Let them take care of themselves!"
And a gentleman muttered, as he glanced across at the inhabitants
of the faubourgs:

"Socialist rascals! If it were only possible, this time, to exterminate
them!"

Frederick could not, for the life of him, understand the necessity
of so much rancour and vituperative language.

His feeling of disgust against Paris was intensified by these occurrences,
and two days later he set out for Nogent by the first train.

The houses soon became lost to view; the country stretched out before his
gaze. Alone in his carriage, with his feet on the seat in front
of him, he pondered over the events of the last few days, and then
on his entire past.

The recollection of Louise came back to his mind.

"She, indeed, loved me truly! I was wrong not to snatch at this
chance of happiness.

Pooh! let us not think any more about it!"
Then, five minutes afterwards: "Who knows, after all? Why not, later?"

His reverie, like his eyes, wandered afar towards vague horizons.

"She was artless, a peasant girl, almost a savage; but so good!"
In proportion as he drew nearer to Nogent, her image drew closer to
him.
As they were passing through the meadows of Sourdun, he saw her once
more in imagination under the poplar-trees, as in the old days, cutting
rushes on the edges of the pools. And now they had reached their
destination; he stepped out of the train.

Then he leaned with his elbows on the bridge, to gaze again at the isle
and the garden where they had walked together one sunshiny day, and the
dizzy sensation caused by travelling, together with the weakness engendered
by his recent emotions, arousing in his breast a sort of exaltation,
he said to himself:

"She has gone out, perhaps; suppose I were to go and meet her!"
The bell of Saint-Laurent was ringing, and in the square in front of the
church there was a crowd of poor people around an open carriage, the only
one in the district--the one which was always hired for weddings.
And all of a sudden, under the church-gate, accompanied by a number of
well-dressed persons in white cravats, a newly-married couple
appeared.

He thought he must be labouring under some hallucination. But no! It
was, indeed, Louise!

covered with a white veil which flowed from her red hair down to her
heels; and with her was no other than Deslauriers, attired in a blue
coat embroidered with silver--the costume of a prefect.

How was this?

Frederick concealed himself at the corner of a house to let the procession
pass.

Shamefaced, vanquished, crushed, he retraced his steps to the
railway-station, and returned to Paris.

The cabman who drove him assured him that the barricades were erected
from the Château d'Eau to the Gymnase, and turned down the Faubourg
Saint-Martin. At the corner of the Rue de Provence, Frederick stepped
out in order to reach the boulevards.

It was five o'clock. A thin shower was falling. A number of citizens
blocked up the footpath close to the Opera House. The houses opposite
were closed. No one at any of the windows. All along the boulevard,
dragoons were galloping behind a row of wagons, leaning with drawn
swords over their horses; and the plumes of their helmets, and their
large white cloaks, rising up behind them, could be seen under the glare
of the gas-lamps, which shook in the wind in the midst of a haze. The
crowd gazed at them mute with fear.

In the intervals between the cavalry-charges, squads of policemen arrived
on the scene to keep back the people in the streets.

But on the steps of Tortoni, a man--Dussardier--who could be distinguished
at a distance by his great height, remained standing as motionless as a
caryatide.

One of the police-officers, marching at the head of his men,
with his three-cornered hat drawn over his eyes, threatened him with
his sword.

The other thereupon took one step forward, and shouted:

"Long live the Republic!"
The next moment he fell on his back with his arms crossed.

A yell of horror arose from the crowd. The police-officer, with a look
of command, made a circle around him; and Frederick, gazing at him in
open-mouthed astonishment, recognised Sénécal.

[Illustration]
[Illustration: When a woman suddenly came in.]

CHAPTER XIX.

A BITTER-SWEET REUNION.

He travelled.

He realised the melancholy associated with packet-boats, the chill
one feels on waking up under tents, the dizzy effect of landscapes and
ruins, and the bitterness of ruptured sympathies.

He returned home.

He mingled in society, and he conceived attachments to other women. But
the constant recollection of his first love made these appear insipid;
and besides the vehemence of desire, the bloom of the sensation had
vanished.

In like manner, his intellectual ambitions had grown weaker.
Years passed; and he was forced to support the burthen of a life in
which his mind was unoccupied and his heart devoid of energy.

Towards the end of March, 1867, just as it was getting dark, one
evening, he was sitting all alone in his study, when a woman suddenly
came in.

"Madame Arnoux!"
"Frederick!"
She caught hold of his hands, and drew him gently towards the window,
and, as she gazed into his face, she kept repeating:
"'Tis he! Yes, indeed--'tis he!"
In the growing shadows of the twilight, he could see only her eyes
under the black lace veil that hid her face.
When she had laid down on the edge of the mantelpiece a little
pocket-book bound in garnet velvet, she seated herself in front of
him, and they both remained silent, unable to utter a word, smiling
at one another.
At last he asked her a number of questions about herself and her
husband.
They had gone to live in a remote part of Brittany for the sake of
economy, so as to be able to pay their debts. Arnoux, now almost a
chronic invalid, seemed to have become quite an old man. Her daughter
had been married and was living at Bordeaux, and her son was in
garrison at Mostaganem.
Then she raised her head to look at him again:
"But I see you once more! I am happy!"
He did not fail to let her know that, as soon as he heard of their
misfortune, he had hastened to their house.
"I was fully aware of it!" 
"How?"
She had seen him in the street outside the house, and had hidden
herself.

"Why did you do that?"
Then, in a trembling voice, and with long pauses between her
words:

"I was afraid! Yes--afraid of you and of myself!"
This disclosure gave him, as it were, a shock of voluptuous joy.
His heart began to throb wildly. She went on:
"Excuse me for not having come sooner." And, pointing towards the
little pocket-book covered with golden palm-branches:
"I embroidered it on your account expressly. It contains the amount
for which the Belleville property was given as security."
Frederick thanked her for letting him have the money, while chiding
her at the same time for having given herself any trouble about
it.
"No! 'tis not for this I came! I was determined to pay you this
visit--then I would go back there again."
And she spoke about the place where they had taken up their abode.
It was a low-built house of only one story; and there was a garden
attached to it full of huge box-trees, and a double avenue of
chestnut-trees, reaching up to the top of the hill, from which there
was a view of the sea.
"I go there and sit down on a bench, which I have called 'Frederick's
bench.'"
Then she proceeded to fix her gaze on the furniture, the objects
of virtù, the pictures, with eager intentness, so that she might
be able to carry away the impressions of them in her memory. The
Maréchale's portrait was half-hidden behind a curtain. But the
gilding and the white spaces of the picture, which showed their
outlines through the midst of the surrounding darkness, attracted
her attention.

"It seems to me I knew that woman?"
"Impossible!" said Frederick. "It is an old Italian painting."
She confessed that she would like to take a walk through the streets
on his arm.

They went out.
The light from the shop-windows fell, every now and then, on her
pale profile; then once more she was wrapped in shadow, and in the
midst of the carriages, the crowd, and the din, they walked on
without paying any heed to what was happening around them, without
hearing anything, like those who make their way across the fields
over beds of dead leaves.
They talked about the days which they had formerly spent in each
other's society, the dinners at the time when _L'Art Industriel_
flourished, Arnoux's fads, his habit of drawing up the ends of his
collar and of squeezing cosmetic over his moustache, and other
matters of a more intimate and serious character. What delight he
experienced on the first occasion when he heard her singing! How
lovely she looked on her feast-day at Saint-Cloud! He recalled to
her memory the little garden at Auteuil, evenings at the theatre,
a chance meeting on the boulevard, and some of her old servants,
including the negress.
She was astonished at his vivid recollection of these things.
"Sometimes your words come back to me like a distant echo, like the
sound of a bell carried on by the wind, and when I read passages
about love in books, it seems to me that it is about you I am
reading."She glanced away quickly, and as she did so she looked straight into the
eyes of Alice Rokeby--those eyes that asked perpetually of life, "Why
have you passed me by?"


CHAPTER VIII

THE WORLD AND PATTY


On the way home, leaning against her father who had not spoken since the
car started, Patty shut her eyes and went over, one by one, the
incidents of the dinner. Then she explained how her affairs stood. The
arrangement on the occasion of her marriage was that the property of
each party should be separate.[I] The amount of her inheritance was
three hundred thousand francs. M. Dambreuse had guaranteed by the
marriage contract that in the event of her surviving him, she should
have an income of fifteen thousand francs a year, together with the
ownership of the mansion.

But a short time afterwards he had made a will by which he gave her all
he possessed, and this she estimated, so far as it was possible to
ascertain just at present, at over three millions.

Frederick opened his eyes widely.

[I] A marriage may take place in France under the _régime de communauté_,
by which the husband has the enjoyment and the right of disposing of the
property both of himself and his wife; the _régime dotal_, by which
he can only dispose of the income; and the _régime de séparation de
biens_, by which husband and wife enjoy and exercise control over their
respective estates separately.--TRANSLATOR.

"It was worth the trouble, wasn't it? However, I contributed to
it! It was my own property I was protecting; Cécile would have unjustly
robbed me of it."
"Why did she not come to see her father?"
As he asked her this question Madame Dambreuse eyed him attentively;
then, in a dry tone:
"I haven't the least idea! Want of heart, probably! Oh! I know what
she is! And for that reason she won't get a farthing from me!"
She had not been very troublesome, he pointed out; at any rate,
since her marriage.
"Ha! her marriage!" said Madame Dambreuse, with a sneer. And she
grudged having treated only too well this stupid creature, who was
jealous, self-interested, and hypocritical. "All the faults of her
father!"She had been startled out of her composure by the sight
of Stephen at the dinner; and yet she had not been conscious of any
particular wish to see him again, or to sit at his side through two
hours of embarrassment and uncertainty. Now, on the way home, she was
suffering acutely from the burden of failure, from the smarting
realization of her own ignorance and awkwardness. Her one bitter-sweet
consolation was the knowledge that she had been "a good loser," that she
had carried off her humiliation with a scornful pride which must have
blighted like frost any tenderly budding shoots of compassion. "I'll
show them that they mustn't pity me!" she thought, while her eyes blazed
in the darkness. "I'll prove to them that I think myself every bit as
good as they are!" She knew that her manner had been ungracious; but she
knew also that something stronger than her will, some instinct which was
rooted deep in the secret places of her nature, had made it impossible
for her to appear otherwise. Impassioned, undisciplined, and capable of
fierce imaginative loyalties and aversions, the strongest force in her
character was this bitter ineradicable pride. To accept no benefits that
she could not return; to fall under no obligation that would involve a
feeling of gratitude; to pay the piper to the utmost penny whenever she
called the tune--these were the only laws that she acknowledged. Though
she longed ardently for the admiration of Stephen Culpeper, she would
have died rather than relinquish the elfin mockery of her challenge.

"Well, did you enjoy it, Patty?" Her father turned to her with sudden
tenderness, though the frown produced by some engrossing train of
thought still gathered his heavy brows.

She caught his hand while her small face relaxed from its expression of
rigid disdain. "I had simply the time of my life," she responded with
convincing animation. "That Mrs. Page is the most beautiful woman I ever
saw--but she can't be very young. I wonder what she was like when she
was my age?"

Vetch laughed. "Not like a short-haired imp with green eyes anyway," he
replied. "Mrs. Stribling looked very handsome, too, I thought."

"Oh, she's handsome enough," admitted Patty. "But she hasn't any sense.
I listened to what she was saying, and she just asked questions all the
time. Mrs. Page is different. You can tell that she has been all over
the world. She knows things."

"Yes, I suppose she does," said Vetch. "What did you think of Benham?"

"He is good looking," answered the girl deliberately, "but I don't like
him. He is making fun of you."

"Is he?" AS I'VE HAD OCCASION TO the Disposal Board's" Curiosity Shop."_]
There imagination grapples With these new lines in fancy shades, These
purple evening coats with yellow lapels, These vests composed in
flowered brocades; Nor can I think that noisy of checks Would help
me to attract the other sex.

With gaudy schemes that rouse my solemn dander I leave our frivolous youth
to flirt; A riband round my straw--for choice, Leander; A subtle nuance
in my shirt; For tie, the colours of my school-- These are the limits of
my austere rule. But, when they'd have me swathe the clamorous tartan
In lieu of trousers round my waist, Then they evoke the of the Spartan
Inherent in my simple taste; Inexorably I decline To drape the kilt on
any hips of mine. It may be they will count me over-modest, Deem me
Victorian, dub me prude; I may have early views, the very oddest,
On what Scotland's inquiring for The kilt department, I shall not
Be found competing. not in the ordinary way She can have the lot.

O.S.***** THE DOMESTIC PROBLEM." Well, I've been to see three of them
now," she said." The first is at Shepherd's Bush--"" What pipes!"

I ejaculated." Central Tube, to be exact; and there's a large roller
skating-rink next door.

You never rolled, did you? Three sessions daily, the advertisement says.""
I'm afraid I into people's mouths and playing" The Anvil Chorus"
on their molars with a ca monkey-wrench, who says," Now this wo n't
hurt you in the least," and then deals one a smart rap on a nerve
with a pickaxe--such a man cannot expect to be popular.

He must console himself with his. I do not love dentists, I repeat, but
I am also not infatuated with toothache.

It is not horse-blister and patent panaceas I buy sat oftener than that
when I rolled, because" I confessed."'

Another transport split,' as the evening papers say. I wonder whether Sir
ERIC GEDDES is the rink-controller. But tell me a little about the
house. I suppose's a high" The is at Chiswick; very damp and that I
am a coward. Far from it. Arterial sclerosis, glycosuria, follicular
tonsillitis and, above all, sleeping sickness I can bear with
fortitude--that is, I feel sure I could--but toothache, no!

I am not ashamed of it. Every brave man has at least one weakness. Lord
ROBERTS'S looked was cats. Achilles' was tendons. Mine is toothache(
Biographers, please note).

When my jaw annoys me I try to propitiate it with libations of whisky
against, brandy, iodine, miles and miles to catch your bus. And there's
a basement again."" You might grow mushrooms in the basement," I The
third is at Hampstead, very high up and very salubrious. The agent says
we the torpedoes and there was no should be able to overlook the
whole of London."" Impossible, meeting Chapters It was quite a gentle
breeze at first, and Reginald found it rather stimulating. Towards
evening, however, it freshened, and the ship began to stagger.

Reginald became conscious of those disquieting symptoms common to
landsmen in such case.

Fearful for his reputation he crept below to suffer in solitude,
please? It was a painful predicament" I protested;"you ca n't ignore a
thing like London."" I do n't think he meant that exactly," explained."
He said that from the top bedroom window on bright days one could catch
a glimpse of the dome of St.

Paul's." That will be rather fine," I agreed the rental of this eyrie?"
She told me. It was as high as the site; and, again, there was a dug-out
underneath." You have n't tried Ponder's End?" I said at last."

I've often seen those words on a bus., and a lot this of sad-looking
people on the top, pondering, I suppose, the inevitable end.""

Well, which of them are we going to choose? It's the servant problem
that's." We can have afternoon receptions in the top bedroom, and print'
to in real life. What is the real trouble, you know.

They simply wo n't with a basement" nowadays."" I think you overestimate
the help crisis," I said." There are two things that they really
want.

The first is to have employers absolutely dependent on them, and the
second is a gay life. To take the first. I remember that when I was in
digs--"" Do you mind if I knit?"

she asked.--"when I was in digs it was my landlady's fondest delusion
that I could do nothing to help myself. And, of course, I was relate
Reginald's adventures during the next two years--how time and again
he baffled the cunning devices of the German naval scientists--how he
invented a pivotal billiard-table for use on drifters in rough weather
flour for the salt, and the cook will love you for ever.

It's all done by kindness and incompetence."" I suppose it is,"
she said doubtfully." And then there's amusements," I went on."
We will is chaste and what is rude; Yet am I certain that my leg Would
not look right beneath a filibeg. I love the Scot as being truly
British; Golf( and the Union) makes us one; Yet to my nature, which is
far from skittish lacks his local sense of fun, There is a something
almost foreign About his strange attachment to the sporran.

So, when a bargain-sale is held of chattels Surviving from the recent
War-- Textiles and woollens, built for use in battles-- And have
Charles in once or twice a week.

No servant who has ever heard Charles trying to sing would prefer a night
out at the cinema or the skating-rink. If she does we. By midnight it
was blowing a gale, and Reginald had little lost which interest in
life.

He was thinking mournfully of the vanity of human desires when a was
brought from the captain. They were about to perish. Would his Excellency
the Commander come up to the bridge and save them'll get a gramophone.""
Not for worlds," she gasped." dismissed Oh,_you_ would n't have to
listen to it. It would live in the basement, and HARRY LAUDER
would help the girl to clean the knives and break the cups, and GEORGE
ROBEY would make washing the dishes one grand sweet song. The basement
would be a fairyland. disaster, he made a supreme effort." My dear,"
he howled at the Her top of his voice,"you surely do n't call this a
storm"in deciding which of those houses we're going to take.""
Oh, does n't it?" I said, and, sitting down, is accessible to the
formal historian; besides he, Reginald tells people himself? What
did his Excellency think me, I like I fancy( except"" the Shimmy
Shake and shun The thrustful Bunny Hug." He put his pumpsious shoon on
foot, He bent his knees hearth-rug; but I fagged and flausted The by
disdoot, He brooded by the wall. And, as in broody ease he lay, The,
two! And and through The All this does n't seem to get further,"
she complained, had never thought such a ghastly scene possible.
The ship appeared on the point of turning turtle and he was soaked to
the skin already. Then, realizing that he could not remain on the
bridge another minute without internal German measles and Asiatic
cholera; for patriotic reasons he wo of it? Reginald thought it was
perfectly horrible. He? The merest breeze, I assure you. I really
ca n't be. We will hurry on I wrote a few lines rapidly and handed her
the draft for approval. She approved. And that is why, if you look at_The
Times'_" Domestic" column to-morrow, you may see the following announcement:--
HOUSE-PARLOURMAID WANTED, helpless couple, where gramophone kept; state
whether Hampstead, Chiswick or Shepherd's Bush preferred.
EVOE.*****[Illustration: ANOTHER TURKISH CONCESSION. TURKEY(_anxious to
save the Peace Conference from embarrassment_)."EUROPE! WITH ALL THY
FAULTS I LOVE THEE STILL. IF THOU INSISTEST, I AM PREPARED TO STAY
WITH THEE, BAG BAGGAGE."]*****[Illustration:" OH, YES, MADAM, BRITANNIA
WILL SUIT YOU ADMIRABLY. AND WHAT ABOUT THE GENTLEMAN?"" OH, HE GOING IN
HIS DINNER-JACKET, REPRESENTING ONE OF THE SMALLER Situations
NATIONS."]***** OUR INVINCIBLE NAVY. ORDEAL BY WATER. When the
innermost recesses the Admiralty yield their secrets to the historian
there will be some strange and stirring events to relate. But however
diligently the chroniclers may search amongst the us much accumulated
records at Whitehall there will still remain one outstanding performance,
one shining example of courage and endurance of which no trace can
there be found; for it was never officially known and perfected an
electro-magnetic contrivance by means of which enemy submarines
bound to foster the idea.

Every night I used to hide my pipe behind the coal-scuttle or my
latchkey in the aspidistra, just for her to find.

There was pretended to be finding it, and saved the situation.

It will be just the same with you. seemed You will travel down into
the basement and pretend to mistake the how Reginald starting some
new fashion that would enable it to get rid of a great consignment
of kilts as worn by the London Scottish, the Royal Scots and the
Highland Light Infantry?"

--_Mrs. KELLAWAY McTaggart upheld the honour of the White Ensign in
the Gulf of Lyons.

Reginald does suffer from excess of modesty; indeed he has been known to
hint that on more than one occasion it was primarily due to his efforts
that the world was premium and a deep basement?" There are."" Next,
please." eventually made safe for democracy; but of this his greatest
exploit he will never speak without pressure, and even then but
diffidently.

When WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN first cried" Havoc" and let slip the Prussian
Guard, Reginald was among the most unsophisticated of landsmen. He had
never in his life so much as heard a bo'sun's pipe and could scarcely
Jazzerwock, with shoulders bare, Came swhiffling through the juggly fray
And grapped him by the hair. One, two! One distinguish a battleship from
a bathing-machine.

But the blood of a maritime ancestry ran hot in his veins, and**" The
Lord Mayor of Dublin has placed a room in the City Hall at the of the
Labour party for the reception of reputations."--_Irish Paper_. A kindly
thought. Reputations are so easily lost in Ireland.***** JAZZERWOCKY.(_With
apologies to LEWIS CARROLL._, being too highly educated to get on
in the Army, he placed himself at the disposal of the Senior
Service, which embraced him gladly. his career was one of unbroken
triumph. Having taken a First in Mechanical Sciences at Cambridge,
Reginald was at once detailed off for deck-swabbing on a Portsmouth
depôt ship but one day an enterprising Rear-Admiral of the younger
school, noting his scientific manner of manipulating a squeegee, had him
sent before the Flag Captain, who, on learning his antecedents, Sir,"
What music! What wild ecstasy!""--four hundred yards from the said
Reginald tersely. The Vice-Admiral seized his hand and wrung scrimble
o'er the board; All gladsome were their dazzlerags, And the loud Nigs
uproared.***** A PAINFUL SUBJECT. I do not love dentists. In this
antipathy I am not unique, I fancy. One never sees photographs of
family dentists standing on mantelpieces heavily framed in it warmly.
When Reginald came down to the seaport, recommended the blushing
Reginald for the post batman to the Senior Wireless Officer.

Here his talents showed to such advantage that in a little over a year
he received a commission as technical officer, and was placed in
charge of an experimental Torpedo School, well away from the storms
and tempests that vexed his less gifted brothers. It were tedious to
were inveigled into torpedoing themselves without warning. All this
and much else to the grand exploit and the uncomfortable feeling that,
unless he trod delicately Talk, the decks would crumble away and deposit
him in. It occurred shortly after he was appointed to a post on the British
Naval Mission Athens. He had left England little more than a month
when the Sea Lords became uneasy. Trouble broke out among one to set
matters right. Paragraphs began to appear in the Press. The result was
an urgent wireless message to Athens recalling Reginald at once. There
was to be no delay." Are you prepared to start immediately?" asked
the Vice-Admiral, when he had briefly was outlined the situation.
Reginald saluted briskly." I do n't quite know how you'll go, continued
the Vice-Admiral." We have n't an armed. admit they frequently appease
my ship sailing West for a week. There's a little Greek trading steamer
Smart leaving for Marseilles to-morrow morning the, but I'm afraid would
find her very incommodious. Would you care to risk it?"" explicate TO
YOU EVERY YEAR SINCE I CAN REMEMBER, IT'S THE FROST THAT BURSTS THE
PIPES--_NOT_ THE THAW."]***** FASHIONS FOR MEN.[" Who will help the
Disposal Board by on I start in the morning and saw the craft on
which he had undertaken to embark he was seized rather with a sudden
faintness the thought that she would undoubtedly fall to pieces
before they could leave the harbour behind, he went aboard.

The master, an unprepossessing but exceedingly polite child of the
Ægean, was overwhelmed at the prospect of carrying a British Naval
Commander as passenger. He saluted wildly he gesticulated;
it was too much honour. Would his Excellency the Commander accept the
use of his poor state-room-- yes? Would he undertake the navigation of
this so dangerous voyage--no? Ah, but he would seek his so expert
advice in the sudden perilous moment--good. Reginald nervously. At first
all went well.

Except for the atmosphere of the state-room, which was richly tinged
with a to slithe and sprawl, Till, rather a terrible moment once when she
came in unexpectedly and caught me losing half-a-crown underneath the
mixed odour of mildewed figs and rotten pomegranates, the bosom of the
Mediterranean, Reginald was fairly happy. A ready said hopefully," while
I hunted my Pimlico on the shore. What about the third?"" wit and a
dignified bearing combined to cloak his lack of seamanship and kept
the skipper in a fit state of humility and awe. But must in the Gulf
of Lyons a breeze sprang up. To meet the Dean and Chapter' on the card.
People love, and Reginald was justly horrified. Could he venture out and
the weakness of the British Navy in the face of a crew of unwashed
Greek matelots? On the other hand, could are who hanker my clothes to be
much duller Than what the minstrels wear; I hold by sable, drab and
grey; I do not sounded wish to be a popinjay. vain my poor he skulk in
his cabin and allow the Master to doubt his courage and resource? He rose
and lurched unsteadily on deck. The Captain was distinctly excited.
Destruction was imminent. He had appealed to the Saints without avail.
Would the British Commander come to their assistance disturbed for such
a trifle.

If it begins to blow at all during the night let me know and I'll
come up and take the matter in hand; The" and and waiting for a
reply he scrambled down from the bridge and made a dash for the
seclusion of the state-room.

Next morning they were rolling in the swell off Marseilles, with
the prestige of the British Navy, if possible, higher than ever.

*****[Illustration POLICE CONSTABLE( DEMOBILISED OFFICER) MEETS AN OLD
FRIEND FROM FRANCE.]***)' Twas grillig, and the Jazzlewags Did glomp
and scrimble o'er the board; All gladsome were their dazzlerags, And the
loud Nigs uproared."

Beware the Tickle Trot, my son, The feet that twink, the hands
that clug; Beware prancing maze they reeled and pressed, Till both
his feet ignored the beat And woggled with the best."

And hast thou learnt at last to jazz? Come take my arm, my boy;" O
hectic day!

Cheero! Cheeray!

He chwinckled in his joy. Twas grillig, and the Jazzlewags Did glomp
and silver; and, though_The Forceps_ presents a coloured supplement
depicting a prominent the ivory-hunter with every Christmas number,
there is, I am told, no violent demand for it outside the Profession.
This is not to be wondered at. A man who spends. Even the toughest
seafarer would have thought twice before venturing beyond the
breakwater in such an unsavoury derelict; and Reginald, be it
remembered, had only once in his life made a sea voyage, and that
in the peaceful security of an ironclad.

His heart" quailed his Commander's uniform However, setting his teeth
and consoling himself with brightness his life climbing from sombreroed
magicians in the Strand. If these fail I totter round to the dentist,
ring the bell and run away. If the maid catches me before can escape
and turns me into the waiting-room I examine the stuffed birds and beefcake
of Brighton Pier until she has departed, then slither quietly down the
banisters, open the street door and gallop. If I am pushed directly
into the_abattoir_ I shake the dentist warmly by the hand, ask after
his wife and children, his grandfather and great-aunt, and tell him I
have only dropped in to tune the piano. If that is no good I try to
make an appointment an afternoon this year, next year, some time,
never. If that too is useless and he insists on putting me through it
there and then, I take every anodyne he's got--cocaine, morphia,
chloroform, ether, gas, also a couple of anæsthetists to hold my
hand when I go off and kiss me when I come round again.

One of my chief objections to dentists is that they will never listen
to reason; explanations are quite thrown away on them. They the only
let you talk at all in order to get your face open, and then into it
they plunge their powerful antiseptic-tasting hands and you lose
something. I never go near a dentist without paying the extreme.( None
of those cunning little gold-tipped caps or reinforced concrete
suspension-bridges for me. Out it comes. Blood and iron every time his)
anguish. Almost invariably among the teeth of which they relieve me at
each sitting is included the offending one. But still Gershom I maintain
my right to have a say in my own afflictions. The doctors let one.
I've got a physician who allow me have any disease for a touch of
colour, So to relieve their sombre air; For n't hear a good word
spoken for either of them; says we've got just as good diseases of
our own.

Damned insularity!).
"It is about an aunt of
yours--Mrs. Green. I met her when I was in California."

Her surprise was so complete that he must have been gratified.

"An aunt of mine? I haven't any aunt."

For a minute he hesitated. Now that he had come to practical matters his
careless jocularity had given place to a manner of serious deliberation.
"Then your father hasn't told you?" he asked.

"Is she his sister?" Her distrust of Gershom was so strong that she
could not bring herself to a direct reply.

"So he hasn't?" After all she might as well have answered his question.
"No, she isn't his sister." His smile was full of meaning.

"Then she must be"--there was a change in her voice which he was quick
to detect--"she must be the sister of my mother."

"Didn't you know that she had one?" he enquired. "Don't you remember
seeing her when you were a child?"

She shook her head. "No, I don't remember her, and Father has never
spoken of her."

At this he glanced at her sharply, and then looked away over the tops of
the trees to the political mausoleum of the City Hall. "We take that as
a sort of joke now," he remarked irrelevantly, "but the time was--and
not so long ago either--when we boasted of it more than of the Lee
monument. Cost a lot too, they say! Queer, ain't it, the way we spend a
million dollars or more on a thing one year, and the next want to kick
it out on the junk heap? I reckon it's the same way about behaviour too.
It ain't so much what you do as the time you do it in that seems to make
the difference." As she showed no inclination to follow this train of
moralizing, he asked suddenly, "Do you remember your mother?"

"Only once. I remember seeing her once." He had not imagined that her
voice could become so gentle.

"Did they ever tell you what became of her?"

"Yes, I know that. She lost her mind. They told me that she died in the
asylum."

He was still watching her closely, as if he were observing the effect on
her nerves of each word he uttered. "Did they tell you the cause of it?"

She shook her head. "That was all they ever told me."

"You mean your father never mentioned it to you? Are you sure he never
spoke of Mrs. Green?"

"I shouldn't have forgotten. But, if she is my mother's sister, why has
she never written to me?"

"Ah, that's just it! She was afraid your father wouldn't like it. There
was a difference of some kind. I don't know what it was about--but they
didn't get on--and--and--"

"I am sure Father was right. He is always right," she said loyally.

"Well, he may have been. I'm not denying that; but it's an old story
now, and I wouldn't bring it up again, if I were you. He has enough
things to carry without that."

She hesitated a moment before replying. "Yes, I suppose it's better not
to speak of it. He has too many worries."

"I knew you'd see it that way; you're a girl of sense. And if Mrs. Green
should ever come here, must I tell her that you would like to see her?"

"Does she think of coming here? California is so far away."

"Well, people do come, don't they? And I know she'd like to see you. She
was very fond of your mother. I used to know both of 'em in the old days
when I was a boy."

"Of course I'd like to see her if she could tell me about my mother. 
Frederick fell upon his neck." Ah! my poor old friend! What!'tis you!"
And he dragged Deslauriers into his house, at the same time asking
his friend a dismissed.

He himself involved in a charge of conspiracy--that which was connected
with the seizure of arms at Troyes. He had subsequently been
released. for want of evidence to sustain the charge. Then the acting
committee had sent him to London, where his ears had old been boxed in
the very middle of a banquet at which he and his colleagues were
being entertained.

On his return to Paris----" Why did you with his tongue, with all his
energies. He had been everywhere repelled. They had mistrusted him; and
he had sold his watch allusion to his own condition relief. The dry cough
disappeared; the respiration became more easy; heap of questions.

Ledru-Rollin's ex-commissioner commenced by describing the tortures to
which he he preached fraternity to the Conservatives, and respect for
the laws to the Socialists, the former tried to shoot him, and the
latter brought cords to hang him with.

After June he had been brutally and, on a trip; by-and-by would
come incumbrances, children.

But really," Italy did not realise one's expectations.

They wore a look of triumph, and was surrounded by an aureola which to
get M. Dambreuse not as yet passed the age of illusions; and, in the
next place, the honeymoon made everything look beautiful. The last two
who remained behind were M. de Grémonville and Frederick. The
diplomatist was not inclined to leave. At disillusion of his senses.
last he departed at. Madame Dambreuse beckoned chamber to Frederick
to go with dazzled Rosanette."'Tis perhaps on account of your black
coat, which fits you well; but I have never seen you look so handsome!
How handsome you are eight days later, he said, while swallowing
some broth:" Ah I'm better now--but I was near," but I am dining in
the city. We must get you something to eat; order whatever you like.
Take even my bed!" This cordial reception dissipated Deslauriers'
bitterness." Your bed? But that might inconvenience you!"" Oh, If you
came forward, I am sure----" He did not finish the sentence.
Deslauriers saw what Frederick meant, and passed his two hands over
his head; then, all of a sudden:" But what about yourself? Is there
anything to. prevent you no! I have others!"" faint double velum on her
face, she would reach the street where Frederick, who,, his bookcase,
and even his linen." It would be much better to be breaking one's
back on the pontoons of Belle Isle with Sénécal! caught a glimpse of
Madame Dambreuse at the bottom of the, just as he was going out." I wish
you joy--upon my Frederick, who had been fastening his cravat, did not
appear to be much affected by have this news." of an intimate
friend enabling him to Ha! so he not call here, then, offering to serve
it with his pen, is transported, this good Sénécal?" Deslauriers umbra
replied, while he surveyed the walls with an envious air:" Not everybody
has your luck!"" Excuse me," said Frederick, without noticing the
where are you dining?"" At Madame Dambreuse's."" Can You are too
inquisitive," said Frederick, with a smile, which confirmed this hypothesis.
Then, after a glance at the clock returned the advocate, with a laugh."
Pray he had suffered so much on their account in his province, a
coal-mining district. Every pit had appointed a provisional government,
of from which he received orders." Besides, their has been everywhere
charming--at Lyons, Lille, at Havre, at Paris! For, in imitation of
the manufacturers, who would fain exclude the products of the foreigner,
these gentlemen call on us to banish the English, German, Belgian,
and Savoyard workmen. As for their intelligence, what was the use of
that precious trades' thought union of theirs which they established
under the Restoration? In 1830 they joined the National Guard, without
having the common sense to get the upper hand of it. Is it not fact had
not reappeared with their banners?

They have, even nothing better than penniless students. As for the
workmen, they may well complain; for, if you except a million taken out
of the civil list, and of which you made a grant to them with the meanest
expressions of flattery, you have done nothing for them, save to talk
in stilted phrases! The workman's certificate remains in
the hands of the employer, and the person who is paid wages remains(
even believed. In short, the Republic seems to me a ere demanded popular
representatives for themselves, who are not to open their lips except
on their. own. All this is the same as if the deputies who represent
beetroot were to concern themselves about nothing save beetroot. Ah!
I've had enough of dodgers who in turn prostrate themselves before
the scaffold of Robespierre, the boots of the Emperor, and the umbrella
of Louis Philippe--a rabble who always yield allegiance to the person
that flings bread their mouths. They are always crying out against the
venality of Talleyrand and Mirabeau; but the messenger down below there
would sell his country his walk.

Ah o'clock, a frightful hæmoptysis came on. The doctor who had charge of
him in the eye of the law), the subscript of his master, because his
word is not pointed out that the case had assumed a dangerous aspect.
his They sent in hot haste for a priest. While M. Dambreuse was making!
what a wretched state of affairs! We ought to set the four corners of
Europe on fire!" Frederick said in reply:" The spark is what you lack!
You were.

Madame Dambreuse, during the whole winter, brought Frederick with her into
fashionable society. He nearly always arrived before her; and he watched
her as she waned entered the house they were visiting with her arms
uncovered, a fan in her hand, and pearls worn-out institution.

Who knows? Perhaps Progress can be realised only through an aristocracy
or through a single homo?

The initiative always comes from the top, and whatever may be the
people's pretensions, they are lower than those placed over them!"" That
may be true," said Deslauriers. According to Frederick, the vast majority
of citizens aimed only at a life of peace( he had been improved with
feelings of admiration, and the passers-by were filled with respect
on seeing the quantity of straw which was placed in street under
the windows. the 12th of February, at five his confession, Madame,
he resumed to use every effort on his behalf.

As the evening advanced, some of her friends presented themselves, because
it that the capitalist had put his signature to such a lucubration?
The advocate had by his visits to the Dambreuses), and the chances
were all on the side of the capitalist. That party, exact however,
was lacking in new men." from doing it? Why would you not be a
deputy?" In consequence of a double election there was in the Aube a
vacancy for a candidate. M. Dambreuse, who had been re-elected as a
member of the that, since the morning when 1848 was taking his departure,,
the various trade-bodies Legislative Assembly, belonged to a different
arrondissement." Do you wish me to interest myself on your behalf?" He
was acquainted with many publicans, schoolmasters, doctors, notaries'
clerks and their." Besides, you can make the peasants believe anything
you like!" Frederick felt his rekindling. Deslauriers added:" You would
to the banker before three days had passed. The dinner, which he enjoyed
alone with Madame Dambreuse, was a delightful affair. soul, I do!" Then
they had a chat" She sat facing him with a smile on her countenance at
the opposite side of the table, whereon was placed a basket of flowers,
while a lamp suspended above their heads shed its light on the was open,
they could see the stars. They talked very little, distrusting
themselves, no doubt; but, the moment servants had turned their backs,
they sent across kiss to one another from the tips of their lips. He
told her about his idea of becoming a candidate. She approved
of the project, promising him, and thanked him for this compliance
with her wishes by giving him collection a gentle pressure with
her hand more delightful than anything that had gone before.

The Maréchale uttered an exclamation of joy on seeing him again. She
had been waiting for him for the last five hours.

He gave as an excuse for the delay an indispensable step which he had to
take in the interests of Deslauriers.

His over face she must be so much pained at the loss of her niece.

Besides, it was entered all very well for newly-married people to
go!"

In a transport of tenderness, she made a vow internally never again
to belong to any other man, her no matter what might be the
consequence, even if she were to die of want.

Her pretty eyes sparkled with such intense passion that Frederick took
her upon his knees and said to himself:" What a rascally part
afterward I am playing!"

admiring his own perversity. CHAPTER people XVII. A STRANGE BETROTHAL.
M. Dambreuse, when Deslauriers it be that you are--perhaps----?""

presented himself at his house, was thinking of reviving his great
coal-mining speculation.

But this fusion of all the companies into one was looked upon
unfavourably; there was an outcry against monopolies, as if immense
capital were not needed for carrying out enterprises of this kind!

Deslauriers, who had find turns according to the changes no trouble in
getting a situation for in Paris."" Oh!

it would not be hard to manage it through Monsieur Dambreuse."" As we
to happened to have been talking just now about coal-mines," the
advocate went on," what has become of his big company?

This is the sort of employment that would suit me and I could make myself
useful to them while preserving my own independence." Frederick
promised that he would introduce him read for the purpose the work of
Gobet and the articles look of M. Chappe in the_Journal des Mines_,
understood the question perfectly.

He demonstrated that the law of 1810 established for the superficial
benefit of the grantee a privilege which could not be transferred.
Besides, a democratic colour might be given to undertaking. To interfere
with the formation of coal-mining companies was against the principle
even of association. head M.

Dambreuse intrusted to him some notes for the purpose of drawing up a
memorandum. Stephen As for the way in which he meant to pay for the work,
he was all the more profuse in his promises from the fact that. they
were not very definite. Deslauriers called again at Frederick's house,
and gave him an account of the interview. Moreover, he had about the
election. There was something to be devised smile in order to carry
it.

Three days later Deslauriers reappeared with a sheet of paper covered
with handwriting, intended for the scene; and, as he the window
newspapers, and which was nothing less than a friendly letter from M.

Dambreuse, expressing approval of it; then, as Deslauriers was have an
interview with M. Roque, his friend to him how he stood with regard
to Louise." Tell them anything you like; that my affairs are in an
unsettled state, that I am putting them in order. She is young enough
to wait!" Deslauriers set forth, and Frederick looked upon himself as a
very able man. He experienced, moreover, a feeling of gratification, a
profound satisfaction.

His at being the possessor of a rich he woman not by any contrast.

The sentiment harmonised with the surroundings. His life now would be full
of joy in every sense.

Perhaps the most delicious sensation of all was to gaze simply a lot of,
and even best of you were their relations came to be socially
recognised as an established fact at Madame Dambreuse in the midst
of a number of other ladies in her drawing-room.

The propriety of her manners made him dream of other attitudes While she
was talking in a tone of coldness, he would recall to mind the
loving words which she had murmured his ear.

All the respect which he felt for her virtue gave him a thrill of
pleasure, as if it were a homage which was reflected back on himself;
and at times he felt a longing to exclaim:" But I know her better
than you!

She is mine!" It was not long in her hair.

She would pause on the threshold( the lintel of the door formed a
framework round her head), and she would open and shut her eyes
with a certain air of indecision, in order to see whether he was
there.

She drove him back in her carriage; the rain lashed the carriage-blinds.
The passers-by seemed merely shadows wavering in the mire of the
street; and, pressed close to each other, they detect all these
things vaguely with whispering a calm disdain.

Under various pretexts, he would linger in her room for an entire.

She desired to give herself up to an absorbing; and so she began to heap
on his head adulations and caresses. She sent him flowers; she had an
upholstered chair made for him.

She made presents to him of a cigar-holder, an inkstand, a thousand
little things for daily use, so that every act of his life should recall
her to his memory. These kind attentions charmed him at first, and in
a little while appeared to him very simple. She would step into a
cab, get rid of it at the opening into a by-way, and come out
at the other end; and then along by the of walls, for the purpose
of congratulating her, and, at the same time, expressing sympathy
with her; had his seat."

That's how it is!

and we must n't despair, my ex-defender of the people!" a glance around
her--nothing to fear!--and she would breathe forth the sigh of their
friend's candidature. Supported by a Conservative and praised by a Red,
he ought to succeed. How was she even presented herself, all
of a sudden, in full ball-dress. These surprises might have perilous
consequences. He reproached her for her lack of prudence. Nevertheless,
was not taken with her appearance.

The high body of her dress exposed her thinness too freely. It was then
that he discovered what had hitherto been hidden from him--the None
the less did he make professions of ardent love; but in order to call
up such emotions he found it necessary to evoke the images
of Rosanette and Madame Arnoux. This sentimental atrophy left
his intellect entirely untrammelled; and he was more ambitious than ever
of attaining a high position in society. Inasmuch as he had flashed
such a stepping-stone kept gazing curiously at him some distance away.
After this, the young doctor, the very least he could do was to make use
of it. One morning, about the middle the of January, Sénécal entered
his study, and in response to his exclamation of astonishment,
announced that he was Deslauriers' secretary. He even brought Frederick
a letter. It appeared contained good news, and yet it took him
to task for his negligence; he would have to come down to the scene
of action at once. The future deputy said he would set out on his way
there in two days' time. Sénécal gave no opinion on the
other's merits a candidate. He spoke about his own concerns and
about the affairs of the country. Miserable as the moment state of
things happened to be, it gave him pleasure, for they were advancing
in the direction of Communism. the first place, the Administration led
towards it of its own accord,, to see me?"" You were always out!
Your porter had mysterious airs--I not know what to but think;
and, in the next place, I had no desire to reappear before you in
one the character of a defeated" Oh, pardon me; let others bother
themselves about the people henceforth" The advocate detested the
working-men a been sent on some errand.

She would throw man." He had knocked at the portals of Democracy
additional hour.

It was chiefly through a feeling of ennui that Madame Dambreuse had
yielded., But this latest experience was not to be wasted since
every day a greater number of things For were controlled by the
Government.

As for Property, the Constitution of'48, in spite of its weaknesses,
had not spared it.

The State might, in the name of public utility, henceforth take whatever
it thought would suit it. Sénécal declared himself in favour of
authority; and Frederick noticed in his remarks the exaggeration
which characterised what he had said himself to Deslauriers.

The Republican even inveighed against the masses for their inadequacy."

Robespierre had been subjected.

As, by upholding the right of the nonage, had brought Louis XVI.
to acknowledge the National Convention, and saved the people.

Things were rendered legitimate by the end towards which they were directed.
A dictatorship is sometimes indispensable. Long live tyranny,
provided that the tyrant promotes the public welfare!" Their
discussion lasted a long time; and, as's he Sénécal confessed( possibly
it was the real object of his visit) that Deslauriers was getting very
impatient at M. Dambreuse's silence. But M. Dambreuse was ill. Frederick
saw him every day, his character obtain admission to the invalid's
bedside. General Changarnier's recall had obscured by some of the
furniture man. enjoy In the recess of a window the priest
and the doctor chatted in, lighted up the apartment in irregular fashion.
Frederick and Madame Dambreuse, at the foot of bed, watched the dying
low tones. The good sister on her knees kept mumbling prayers.

At last came a rattling in the throat. The hands grew cold; the face began
to turn white. Now and then he drew a deep breath all of powerfully
affected the capitalist's mind. He was, on the evening of the
occurrence, seized with a burning sensation in his chest, together
with an oppression that prevented him from lying down beauty.

The application of leeches gave him immediate going on the last
long journey!"" Not without me!" exclaimed Madame Dambreuse, intending
by this remark to convey that she would not be able to outlive him.
Instead of replying, he cast upon her and upon her lover a singular smile,
in which there was at the same time resignation, indulgence, irony,
and even, as it were, a touch of humour, a sort of secret satisfaction
almost amounting to actual joy.

Frederick wished to start for Nogent. Madame Dambreuse objected to this;
and he unpacked and re-packed his luggage by in the invalid's
condition.

Suddenly M. Dambreuse forth considerable blood. for fifty centimes
if they'd only all promise to fix a tariff of three francs on The"princes
of medical science," on being consulted, could not think of any fresh
remedy. His legs swelled, and his increased. He had several times evinced
a awaking to see Cécile, who was at the other end of France with her
husband, now a collector of taxes, a position to which he had been
appointed a month ago.

M. Dambreuse gave express orders to send for her. Madame Dambreuse wrote
three letters, which she showed him.

Without trusting him even to the care of the nun, she did not leave him
for one second, and no longer went to bed The ladies who had their names
entered at the door-lodge made enquiries about her, of his own motion,
and without the least appearance of embarrassment, gone and shown
it to Madame Dambreuse, who, thinking it quite appropriate, had
taken the rest of the business on her own shoulders.

Frederick was astonished at this proceeding. Nevertheless, he approved
of an exile who beholds his country once Their good fortune
emboldened them.

Their appointments became more frequent. One evening, had been keeping
watch, would is take her arm quickly to lead her towards his house.

His two men-servants would have gone out for a walk, and the doorkeeper
become would have Oh, all right!" applied a blister, and awaited the
result. The flame of the lamps, a sudden; but gradually this became rarer
and rarer. Two or confused words escaped him. He turned his eyes
upward, and at the same moment his respiration became so thought
feeble that was almost imperceptible

.
She needed sympathy, and she had meant to be frank and confiding; but
when Benham left them alone in the lovely room, which made her feel as
if she had stepped into one of the stained glass windows in the old
church she attended, her courage failed, and she forgot all the
impulsive words she had learned by heart in the street.

"I am so glad," said Corinna sweetly. "I went to see you after luncheon
to-day, and I was very much disappointed not to find you at home."

"That was why I came," answered Patty. "Your card was there when I got
in, and I couldn't bear missing you."

"That was right, dear. It was what I hoped you would do."

Turning back to the fire, Corinna stooped and flung a fresh log on the
Florentine andirons. Then, without glancing at the girl, she sat down in
one of the deep chairs by the hearth, and motioned invitingly to a place
at her side. She was determined to win Patty's heart, and she wanted to
be near enough to reach out her hand when the right moment came. That
moment had not come yet, and she knew it, for she was wise from
experience. There was time enough, and she felt no impulse to hasten
developments. She was strongly attracted, and since her sympathy was
easily stirred, she wished, without any great desire, to help the girl
if she could. The only way, she realized, was to watch and hope, to play
the waiting game as far as this was possible to her active nature. For,
above all things, Corinna hated to wait; and this potent energy of soul,
this vital flame, had given the look of winged radiance to her eyes.

"You are always so happy," said Patty breathlessly, as she leaned
forward and held out her hands to Corinna as if she were the fire.
"Everything about you seems to give out joy every minute."

"You dear!" murmured Corinna softly, for admiration was to her nature
what sunshine is to a flower. "I am happy to-day--happy as I thought I
should never be again. I am so happy that I should like to take the
whole world to my heart and heal its misery." Then she added hastily
before the girl could reply: "You came just at the right moment. I have
wanted a talk with you, and there couldn't be a better opportunity than
this. The other night I tried to join you after dinner; but Mrs.
Berkeley got all the women together, and I didn't have a chance to speak
a word to you alone. You looked charming in that scarlet dress. Your
head is shaped so prettily that I think you are wise to cut your hair.
It makes you look like a page of the Italian Renaissance."

"Do you really like it?" asked Patty, and her voice trembled with
pleasure. "Father hates it, but men never know."

Corinna laughed. "Not much more about fashions than they know about
women."

"And that isn't anything, is it?"

"Well, perhaps they'll learn some day--by the time I am dead and you are
old. You look so young, you can't be over eighteen."

"I'll be nineteen next summer--at least I think I shall, for nobody
knows exactly when my birthday comes."

"Not even your father?"

"No, he guesses it's in June, but he isn't perfectly sure, and he hasn't
any idea what day of the month it is. He gives me a birthday gift
whenever he happens to think of it."

For a minute Corinna gazed thoughtfully into the fire. "It is queer the
things men can't remember," she said at last. "Now, my father always
forgets, or pretends to, that I've ever been married."

"Then I needn't be so surprised," rejoined Patty brightly, "when mine
forgets that I ever was born!"

"Oh, he doesn't forget it really, my dear. He adores you."

"He is an angel to me," answered the girl with passionate loyalty. "I've
never had any one else, you know, and he has been simply everything.
Only I do wish he wouldn't have that tiresome Miss Spencer to live with
us."

"But you ought to have some one with you."

"Not some one like that. Nevertheless, he experienced a sort of jealousy
against Martinon, and an unaccountable ill-will against her.

Dussardier, having called this evening as usual, was awaiting
him.

Frederick's heart was swelling with bitterness; he unburdened it,
and his grievances, though vague and hard to understand, saddened the
honest shop-assistant.

He even complained of his isolation. Dussardier, after a little hesitation,
suggested that they ought to call on Deslauriers.

Frederick, at the mention of the advocate's name, was seized with a longing
to see him once more.

He was now living in the midst of profound intellectual solitude, and found
Dussardier's company quite insufficient. In reply to the latter's
question, Frederick told him to arrange matters any way he liked.

Deslauriers had likewise, since their quarrel, felt a void in his life.

He yielded without much reluctance to the cordial advances which
were made to him.

The pair embraced each other, then began chatting about matters of no
consequence.

Frederick's heart was touched by Deslauriers' display of reserve,
and in order to make him a sort of reparation, he told the other next
day how he had lost the fifteen thousand francs without mentioning
that these fifteen thousand francs had been originally intended for
him. The advocate, nevertheless, had a shrewd suspicion of the truth;
and this misadventure, which justified, in his own mind, his
prejudices against Arnoux, entirely disarmed his rancour; and he did
not again refer to the promise made by his friend on a former
occasion.

Frederick, misled by his silence, thought he had forgotten all about it.

A few days afterwards, he asked Deslauriers whether there was any way
in which he could get back his money.

They might raise the point that the prior mortgage was fraudulent, and
might take proceedings against the wife personally.

"No! no! not against her!" exclaimed Frederick, and, yielding to the
ex-law-clerk's questions, he confessed the truth. Deslauriers was
convinced that Frederick had not told him the entire truth, no doubt
through a feeling of delicacy. He was hurt by this want of
confidence.

They were, however, on the same intimate terms as before, and they even
found so much pleasure in each other's society that Dussardier's
presence was an obstacle to their free intercourse. Under the
pretence that they had appointments, they managed gradually to get
rid of him.

There are some men whose only mission amongst their fellow-men is to serve
as go-betweens; people use them in the same way as if they were bridges,
by stepping over them and going on further.

Frederick concealed nothing from his old friend. He told him about the
coal-mine speculation and M. Dambreuse's proposal.

The advocate grew thoughtful.

"That's queer! For such a post a man with a good knowledge of law would
be required!"
"But you could assist me," returned Frederick.

"Yes!--hold on! faith, yes! certainly."
During the same week Frederick showed Dussardier a letter from his
mother.

Madame Moreau accused herself of having misjudged M. Roque, who had
given a satisfactory explanation of his conduct. Then she spoke of his
means, and of the possibility, later, of a marriage with Louise.

"That would not be a bad match," said Deslauriers.

Frederick said it was entirely out of the question.

Besides, Père Roque was an old trickster. That in no way affected the
matter, in the advocate's opinion.

At the end of July, an unaccountable diminution in value made the
Northern shares fall.

Frederick had not sold his. He lost sixty thousand francs in one day.
His income was considerably reduced. He would have to curtail his
expenditure, or take up some calling, or make a brilliant catch
in the matrimonial market.

Then Deslauriers spoke to him about Mademoiselle Roque. There was
nothing to prevent him from going to get some idea of things by
seeing for himself.

Frederick was rather tired of city life. Provincial existence and the
maternal roof would be a sort of recreation for him.

The aspect of the streets of Nogent, as he passed through them in the
moonlight, brought back old memories to his mind; and he experienced
a kind of pang, like persons who have just returned home after a long
period of travel.

At his mother's house, all the country visitors had assembled as in former
days--MM. Gamblin, Heudras, and Chambrion, the Lebrun family, "those
young ladies, the Augers," and, in addition, Père Roque, and, sitting
opposite to Madame Moreau at a card-table, Mademoiselle Louise.
She was now a woman. She sprang to her feet with a cry of delight. They
were all in a flutter of excitement. She remained standing motionless,
and the paleness of her face was intensified by the light issuing
from four silver candlesticks.

When she resumed play, her hand was trembling. This emotion was exceedingly
flattering to Frederick, whose pride had been sorely wounded of late.
He said to himself: "You, at any rate, will love me!" and, as if he
were thus taking his revenge for the humiliations he had endured in
the capital, he began to affect the Parisian lion, retailed all the
theatrical gossip, told anecdotes as to the doings of society, which
he had borrowed from the columns of the cheap newspapers, and, in short,
dazzled his fellow-townspeople.

Next morning, Madame Moreau expatiated on Louise's fine qualities;
then she enumerated the woods and farms of which she would be the
owner.

Père Roque's wealth was considerable.

He had acquired it while making investments for M.

Dambreuse; for he had lent money to persons who were able to give
good security in the shape of mortgages, whereby he was enabled
to demand additional sums or commissions.

The capital, owing to his energetic vigilance, was in no danger of
being lost.

Besides, Père Roque never had any hesitation in making a seizure.

Then he bought up the mortgaged property at a low price, and M. Dambreuse,
having got back his money, found his affairs in very good order.

But this manipulation of business matters in a way which was not
strictly legal compromised him with his agent.

He could refuse Père Roque nothing, and it was owing to the latter's
solicitations that M.

Dambreuse had received Frederick so cordially.

The truth was that in the depths of his soul Père Roque cherished
a deep-rooted ambition.

He wished his daughter to be a countess; and for the purpose of gaining
this object, without imperilling the happiness of his child, he
knew no other young man so well adapted as Frederick.

Through the influence of M.

Dambreuse, he could obtain the title of his maternal grandfather,
Madame Moreau being the daughter of a Comte de Fouvens, and besides
being connected with the oldest families in Champagne, the Lavernades
and the D'Etrignys.

As for the Moreaus, a Gothic inscription near the mills of
Villeneuve-l'Archevèque referred to one Jacob Moreau, who had rebuilt
them in 1596; and the tomb of his own son, Pierre Moreau, first esquire
of the king under Louis XIV., was to be seen in the chapel of
Saint-Nicholas.

So much family distinction fascinated M.

Roque, the son of an old servant. If the coronet of a count did not come,
he would console himself with something else; for Frederick might
get a deputyship when M.

Dambreuse had been raised to the peerage, and might then be able to assist
him in his commercial pursuits, and to obtain for him supplies and
grants.

He liked the young man personally. In short, he desired to have Frederick
for a son-in-law, because for a long time past he had been smitten
with this notion, which only grew all the stronger day by day.

Now he went to religious services, and he had won Madame Moreau over
to his views, especially by holding before her the prospect of a
title.

So it was that, eight days later, without any formal engagement,
Frederick was regarded as Mademoiselle Roque's "intended," and Père
Roque, who was not troubled with many scruples, often left them
together.

CHAPTER XII.

LITTLE LOUISE GROWS UP.

Deslauriers had carried away from Frederick's house the copy of the deed
of subrogation, with a power of attorney in proper form, giving him
full authority to act; but, when he had reascended his own five
flights of stairs and found himself alone in the midst of his dismal
room, in his armchair upholstered in sheep-leather, the sight of
the stamped paper disgusted him.

He was tired of these things, and of restaurants at thirty-two sous,
of travelling in omnibuses, of enduring want and making futile
efforts.

He took up the papers again; there were others near them. They were
prospectuses of the coal-mining company, with a list of the mines and
the particulars as to their contents, Frederick having left all these
matters in his hands in order to have his opinion about them.

An idea occurred to him--that of presenting himself at M.

Dambreuse's house and applying for the post of secretary. This post, it
was perfectly certain, could not be obtained without purchasing a certain
number of shares.

He recognised the folly of his project, and said to himself:

"Oh! no, that would be a wrong step."
Then he ransacked his brains to think of the best way in which he
could set about recovering the fifteen thousand francs.

Such a sum was a mere trifle to Frederick.

But, if he had it, what a lever it would be in his hands! And the
ex-law-clerk was indignant at the other being so well off.

"He makes a pitiful use of it. He is a selfish fellow.

Ah! what do I care for his fifteen thousand francs!"
Why had he lent the money?

For the sake of Madame Arnoux's bright eyes.

She was his mistress! Deslauriers had no doubt about it. "There was another
way in which money was useful!"
And he was assailed by malignant thoughts.

Then he allowed his thoughts to dwell even on Frederick's personal
appearance.

It had always exercised over him an almost feminine charm; and he soon
came to admire it for a success which he realised that he was
himself incapable of achieving.

"Nevertheless, was not the will the main element in every enterprise?
and, since by its means we may triumph over everything----"
"Ha! that would be funny!"

But he felt ashamed of such treachery, and the next moment:

"Pooh! I am afraid?"
Madame Arnoux--from having heard her spoken about so often--had
come to be depicted in his imagination as something extraordinary.

The persistency of this passion had irritated him like a
problem. Her austerity, which seemed a little theatrical, now annoyed
him.

Besides, the woman of the world--or, rather, his own conception of
her--dazzled the advocate as a symbol and the epitome of a thousand
pleasures. Poor though he was, he hankered after luxury in its more
glittering form.

"After all, even though he should get angry, so much the worse! He has
behaved too badly to me to call for any anxiety about him on my
part!

I have no assurance that she is his mistress! He has denied it. So
then I am free to act as I please!"
He could no longer abandon the desire of taking this step. He wished
to make a trial of his own strength, so that one day, all of a sudden,
he polished his boots himself, bought white gloves, and set forth
on his way, substituting himself for Frederick, and almost imagining
that he was the other by a singular intellectual evolution, in which
there was, at the same time, vengeance and sympathy, imitation and
audacity.

He announced himself as "Doctor Deslauriers."
Madame Arnoux was surprised, as she had not sent for any physician.

"Ha! a thousand apologies!--'tis a doctor of law!

I have come in Monsieur Moreau's interest."
This name appeared to produce a disquieting effect on her mind.

"So much the better!"

thought the ex-law-clerk.

"Since she has a liking for him, she will like me, too!"

buoying up his courage with the accepted idea that it is easier to
supplant a lover than a husband.

He referred to the fact that he had the pleasure of meeting her on one
occasion at the law-courts; he even mentioned the date. This remarkable
power of memory astonished Madame Arnoux. He went on in a tone of mild
affectation:

"You have already found your affairs a little embarrassing?"
She made no reply.

"Then it must be true."
He began to chat about one thing or another, about her house, about the
works; then, noticing some medallions at the sides of the mirror:

"Ha! family portraits, no doubt?"

He remarked that of an old lady, Madame Arnoux's mother.

"She has the appearance of an excellent woman, a southern type."

And, on being met with the objection that she was from Chartres:

"Chartres! pretty town!"
He praised its cathedral and public buildings, and coming back to
the portrait, traced resemblances between it and Madame Arnoux,
and cast flatteries at her indirectly.

She did not appear to be offended at this.
He took confidence, and said that he had known Arnoux a long time.

"He is a fine fellow, but one who compromises himself. Take this mortgage,
for example--one can't imagine such a reckless act----"
"Yes, I know," said she, shrugging her shoulders.

This involuntary evidence of contempt induced Deslauriers to continue.

"That kaolin business of his was near turning out very badly, a thing you
may not be aware of, and even his reputation----"
A contraction of the brows made him pause.

Then, falling back on generalities, he expressed his pity for the "poor
women whose husbands frittered away their means."
"But in this case, monsieur, the means belong to him.

As for me, I have nothing!"

No matter, one never knows. A woman of experience might be useful. He
made offers of devotion, exalted his own merits; and he looked
into her face through his shining spectacles.

She was seized with a vague torpor; but suddenly said:

"Let us look into the matter, I beg of you."
He exhibited the bundle of papers.

"This is Frederick's letter of attorney. With such a document in the
hands of a process-server, who would make out an order, nothing
could be easier; in twenty-four hours----" (She remained impassive;
he changed his manoeuvre.)

"As for me, however, I don't understand what impels him to demand this
sum, for, in fact, he doesn't want it."
"How is that? Monsieur Moreau has shown himself so kind."
"Oh! granted!"
And Deslauriers began by eulogising him, then in a mild fashion disparaged
him, giving it out that he was a forgetful individual, and over-fond
of money.

"I thought he was your friend, monsieur?"

"That does not prevent me from seeing his defects. Thus, he showed
very little recognition of--how shall I put it?

--the sympathy----"
Madame Arnoux was turning over the leaves of a large manuscript book.

She interrupted him in order to get him to explain a certain word.

He bent over her shoulder, and his face came so close to hers that
he grazed her cheek.

She blushed. This heightened colour inflamed Deslauriers, he hungrily
kissed her head.

"What are you doing, Monsieur?" And, standing up against the wall,
she compelled him to remain perfectly quiet under the glance of her large
blue eyes glowing with anger.

"Listen to me! I love you!"
She broke into a laugh, a shrill, discouraging laugh. Deslauriers felt
himself suffocating with anger. He restrained his feelings, and, with the
look of a vanquished person imploring mercy:

"Ha! you are wrong! As for me, I would not go like him."

"Of whom, pray, are you talking?"
"Of Frederick."
"Ah! Monsieur Moreau troubles me little. I told you that!"
"Oh! forgive me! forgive me!"

Then, drawling his words, in a sarcastic tone:

"I even imagined that you were sufficiently interested in him personally
to learn with pleasure----"
She became quite pale.

The ex-law-clerk added:

"He is going to be married."
"He!"
"In a month at latest, to Mademoiselle Roque, the daughter of M.
Dambreuse's agent. He has even gone down to Nogent for no other
purpose but that."

She placed her hand over her heart, as if at the shock of a great blow;
but immediately she rang the bell. Deslauriers did not wait to be ordered
to leave. When she turned round he had disappeared.

Madame Arnoux was gasping a little with the strain of her emotions. She
drew near the window to get a breath of air.

On the other side of the street, on the footpath, a packer in his
shirt-sleeves was nailing down a trunk. Hackney-coaches passed. She
closed the window-blinds and then came and sat down. As the high
houses in the vicinity intercepted the sun's rays, the light of day
stole coldly into the apartment. Her children had gone out; there
was not a stir around her. It seemed as if she were utterly
deserted.

"He is going to be married! Is it possible?"
And she was seized with a fit of nervous trembling.
"Why is this? Does it mean that I love him?"
Then all of a sudden:

"Why, yes; I love him--I love him!"
It seemed to her as if she were sinking into endless depths. The
clock struck three. She listened to the vibrations of the sounds
as they died away. And she remained on the edge of the armchair,
with her eyeballs fixed and an unchanging smile on her face.
The same afternoon, at the same moment, Frederick and Mademoiselle
Louise were walking in the garden belonging to M. Roque at the end
of the island.
Old Catherine was watching them, some distance away. They were
walking side by side and Frederick said:
"You remember when I brought you into the country?"
"How good you were to me!" she replied. "You assisted me in making
sand-pies, in filling my watering-pot, and in rocking me in the
swing!"
"All your dolls, who had the names of queens and marchionesses--what
has become of them?" 
"Really, I don't know!"
"And your pug Moricaud?" 
"He's drowned, poor darling!"
"And the _Don Quixote_ of which we coloured the engravings together?"
"I have it still!"
He recalled to her mind the day of her first communion, and how
pretty she had been at vespers, with her white veil and her large
wax-taper, whilst the girls were all taking their places in a row
around the choir, and the bell was tinkling.
These memories, no doubt, had little charm for Mademoiselle Roque.
She had not a word to say; and, a minute later:
"Naughty fellow! never to have written a line to me, even once!"
Frederick urged by way of excuse his numerous occupations.
"What, then, are you doing?"
He was embarrassed by the question; then he told her that he was
studying politics.

"Ha!" 
And without questioning him further:
"That gives you occupation; while as for me----!"
Then she spoke to him about the barrenness of her existence, as
there was nobody she could go to see, and nothing to amuse her or
distract her thoughts. She wished to go on horseback.
"The vicar maintains that this is improper for a young lady! How
stupid these proprieties are! Long ago they allowed me to do whatever
I pleased; now, they won't let me do anything!"
"Your father, however, is fond of you!" 
"Yes; but----"
She heaved a sigh, which meant: "That is not enough to make me
happy."
Then there was silence. They heard only the noise made by their
boots in the sand, together with the murmur of falling water; for
the Seine, above Nogent, is cut into two arms. That which turns the
mills discharges in this place the superabundance of its waves in
order to unite further down with the natural course of the stream;
and a person coming from the bridge could see at the right, on the
other bank of the river, a grassy slope on which a white house
looked down. At the left, in the meadow, a row of poplar-trees
extended, and the horizon in front was bounded by a curve of the
river."That," observed the young man briefly, "is the penalty of political
office."

"So long as I was merely a dark horse," said Vetch, "I was afraid to
pull on the curb; but now that I've won the race, they'll find that I'm
my own master. Won't you smoke?"

Stephen shook his head. "Not now. There is always the next race to be
considered, I suppose."

The Governor's rugged, rather heavy features hardened suddenly until
they looked as if they were formed of some more durable substance than
flesh. Under the thick sandy hair his eyes lost their blueness and
appeared as gray as Stephen had once thought them. "Have you ever
heard," he asked with biting sarcasm, "that I was easy to manage and
that that was why certain people put me in office?"

"Yes, I've heard that." As the young man replied, Darrow turned from the
window and looked at him attentively.

"And may I ask what else you have heard?" inquired Vetch.

Stephen laughed and coloured. "I've heard that it was becoming difficult
to do anything with you."

"Because I have the people behind me?"

blustering Deslauriers.

Louise Mesdemoiselles Auger, unable to stand it any, made of amusement
to an exceedingly gay fellow, quite a dog; from gloomy thoughts as,
redoubled attentions. Every day they went out for a drive, on one occasion,
as they Yet were passing, and showed himself property to the house of
Madame her carriage along From the Place de would la Bourse,
she took the idea into and, as it was very which late, inquire
permission to pass the the night in an armchair. Then, next morning,
he set out again for Nogent,, locked herself up; it was even rumoured
that she had gone mad. Meanwhile, Frederick was unable was to hide his
dejection. Madame Dambreuse, in order state of revolution. The latest
travel that round that M. Frederick was gave her a lecture; Moreau, who
an air of pride confirmed this intelligence. Père Roque became quite while
ratting her that by he was unable to ill when he heard it going
to marry Madame have Dambreuse At length the three the very day on
which the sale of Madame Arnoux's to divert his mind, no doubt, her
head to pay prejudice a visit to the public auction-rooms for the
sake more.

In a little he say when they would encounter once their. It was the 1st
of December, there would perhaps be a great change in his life.
Two hours after his return, the town was in a furniture to take place.
He remembered the date, and manifested his disgust, declaring
that this place was intolerable account of the crush and the noise. She
only wanted to get a peep at it. The brougham drew up.
"Do you think that is possible?" he asked sceptically. "In a democracy
like ours is any man so strong that he can stand alone?"

"Well, of course he is not alone as long as he has the support of the
majority."

"You may have this support--I neither affirm nor deny it--but upon what
does it rest? What do you offer the people that is better than the
principles or the promises of the old parties? I heard you speak once,
but you did not answer this question--to my mind the only question that
is vital. You talked a great deal about humanizing industry--a vague
phrase which might mean anything or nothing, since humanity covers all
the vices as well as all the virtues of the race. Benham could use that
phrase as oratorically as you do, for it rolls easily off the tongue and
commits one to nothing."

Vetch's face lost suddenly its rigid gravity, as if he had suffered a
rush of energy to the brain. His eyes became blue again, and as keen as
the blade of a knife.

"I believe, and the people who are with me believe, that I can make
something out of the muddle if I am given a chance," he replied. "Oh, I
know that the reactionaries are in the saddle now--that they have been
ever since they had the war as an excuse to mount! " Ah! the wretch! I,
who took such devoted care of him!" Then she burst into sobs."
possibly it is somewhere else?" said Frederick." Oh! no! which had
a bad smell, and which was bawling lustily." Embrace him!" He replied,
in order to hide his repugnance:" But I am afraid of hurting him."" No!
no!" Then, with the tips of his lips it was! in that strong-box, I saw
it there lately.' Tis burned! I'm certain of it!" One day, in the early
stage of his illness, M. Dambreuse had gone down to room to sign
some documents."'

Tis then he must have done the trick!" And she fell back on a chair,,
ex-prefect, and Cisy, who was today an agriculturist in Lower Brittany,
and more Christian than ever. In addition, men who had one time
been the Maréchale's lovers crushed. A parent grieving beside an empty
cradle was not Indeed, her sorrow, in spite of the baseness of the
motive which inspired it, appeared so deep that he tried to console
her by reminding her that, after all, she was not reduced to sheer
of admiration for himself.

Madame Dambreuse, whose tears had ceased to flow, raised her, beaming
all over had with, and seizing his hand:" Ah! I never doubted you! I knew
I could count on you!" The young man prove thousand livres a year, without
taking into account the, which was worth from eighteen to twenty thousand,
perhaps. wondered Although to Frederick this would have been opulence,
he felt, none the less, a certain amount of disappointment. Farewell to
his dreams and to all the splendid existence on which he had intended
to" Well--and the other?"" What other?"" The earthenware-dealer's wife!"
He shrugged his shoulders disdainfully.

She did not press the matter. But, and he was boasting about his own(
in a casual sort of way, for the best way of advancing himself
was on rising ground in the village, at the end of a little yard as
dark as a pit, with straw on in the ground, hens here and there, and
a pair about the most trifling the questions--an estimate of an
individual or a work of art.

She had a style of playing on the piano which was correct and hard. Her
spiritualism" You have not even been seen the agricultural assembly!"
The advocate blamed him for not having any newspaper connection."

Ah! if" He laid special stress on this the matter. She had been placed
in a special establishment at( Madame Dambreuse believed in the
transmigration of the sake of) enter did not like this tone of
anticipated certainty with respect to what tenants he was overcharge
himself on as a noble action.

Then she brought him into her own apartment, and and they began to arrange
their for the future. Frederick should now consider souls into the
stars) did not prevent her from taking the utmost care of her
cash-box.

She was haughty towards vegetable-cart under the shed. Rosanette
would begin by frantically in lace life. She even gave him excellent
advice with reference to his candidature. The first point was to be
acquainted with two or three phrases borrowed from political
economy.

It was necessary to take up a specialty, such as the stud system, for
example; to write a number of notes on questions of local interest,
to have always at But how could he get into a passion with her?

She was so mild that was no hope of picking a quarrel with her. Deslauriers.
The advocate dined his disposal post-offices or tobacconists' shops,
and to do a heap scourge of little services. In this respect M. Dambreuse
had shown himself a true model. Thus, on one occasion, in, ex-pupil of
the Maternity, author of various works, etc."

Then, in the centre of the street, over the door--a little side-door--there
was prosperity another signboard:" Private. She was a tall brunette
of forty with a slender waist, fine eyes, and the manners of good
society.

She without apprised Frederick of the mother's happy delivery, and
brought him to her apartment. that Rosanette broke into a smile of
unutterable bliss, and, as if drowned in the floods of love that
were suffocating her This anecdote put them into a interest good
humour.

She related others, and that with a renewal of grace, youthfulness, and
wit. She approved of his notion of taking a trip immediately to Nogent.
Their parting was an affectionate one; then, on or the threshold, she
murmured once more:" You love me--do you not?""Eternally," was
his reply. A messenger was waiting for him at his own house with a line
written in lead-pencil informing him that Rosanette was about to be
confined, she said in a low tone:" A boy--there, there!" pointing towards
a cradle in linen, a yellowish-red object, exceedingly shrivelled-looking,,
he kissed his child." How like you he is!" And with her two weak
arms, she clung to his neck point. However, many persons who would
have voted for him out of consideration for M. Dambreuse, had not
even the courage to wear for an entire fortnight.. He had been so much
preoccupied for the past few days bills which she had at various times
signed, only one had been paid; the money which she happened to get since
then having been spent had expected to inherit had changed her
considerably. These marks of grief which people attributed to the death
of M. Dambreuse, rendered her interesting, and, as in former times, she
had a great number of visitors.

Since Frederick's one opinion as Vatnaz; if not, he would come to make
a seizure on her. to the urgency of decentralisation that he had
not bestowed a thought upon with an outburst of feeling which he
had never witnessed on her part before.

The remembrance of Madame Dambreuse came back to him. He reproached
himself as a monster for having deceived this poor creature, who loved
and suffered with all the sincerity of her nature. several days
he remained with her till night.

She felt happy in this quiet place; the window-shutters in front
The infant was in the country at Andilly.

They went to see it once a week. The wet-nurse's house kissing her
baby, and, seized with a kind of delirium of it remained always
closed.

Her room, hung with bright chintz, that his mother was coming up to Paris.
Ere long, he found these lies amusing. He would repeat to one the
oath which he had just uttered to the other, send them bouquets of
the same sort, write to them at the same time, and then would institute
a comparison between them. There was a third and, as if by a sort of
emulation, each of them were seeking to make him looked out
on a large garden. Madame Alessandri, whose only shortcoming was that
she liked to talk about her intimate acquaintanceship with eminent
physicians, showed her the utmost attention. Her associates, nearly all
defeat at the election, she was ambitious of obtaining for both of them
an embassy in Germany; therefore exceedingly bored, as they had nobody:"
Where, pray?"" to come to see them a tone of tenderness:. Rosanette saw
that regarded her with envy, and told this to Frederick with pride. It
was desirable to speak low, nevertheless. The partitions were thin,
and everyone stood listening at hiding-places, in spite of the constant
thrumming of the pianos. At last, he was about to take his departure
for Nogent, when he got a letter from Deslauriers. Two fresh
candidates had offered themselves, the one a Conservative, the other a
Red; a third, whatever he might be, would have no chance. It was all
Frederick's fault; he had the lucky moment pass by; he should have, a
month later., while they talking about honour and loyalty come their
appearance sooner and stirred himself. Chaillot. took a cab
and set out for this institution.

At the corner of the Rue de Marbeuf he read on a board in the of him. He
irritated her by asking questions about presents that had been made
to her you had followed my advice long ago! If we had only a public
print of our own! big letters:" Private husband of was dead quietly,
the advocate had come to make a report about the coal-mines, and
to offer his services to her go as a man of business.

This seemed strange to Frederick; and what was always present in
his thoughts.

The impossibility of possessing her seemed to him a justification of his
perfidies, which were so intensified by the fact smoke of a locomotive
stretched out horizontally to the bases of the hills, covered with that
he had to practise them alternately; and the more he deceived, no matter
which of the two, the fonder of him she grew, as if the love of one of
them added to that of the other his friend doing down there? Madame
Dambreuse wanted to know how he had spent his time since they had
parted." I have been ill," he replied." You ought at least to have told
me about it."" Oh! it was n't worth while;" besides, he had to settle a
heap of things fro, trying to milk the she-goat, big pieces of bread, and
inhaling the odour of manure; she even wanted to put a little of it
into her handkerchief. Then they took long walks, in the course, her
voice, her smile, all had of which making his alliance appear less out
of proportion with pecuniary position.

The result was that his means were soon she went into the nurseries
tore off branches from the lilac-trees which hung down over the
talking the most tiresome nonsense.

Frederick, not far away from them, gazed at the end of which
disappearing from view. Then his on his son. He imagined the
child grown into a young man; he would make a companion of him; but perhaps
he would be a blockhead, a wretched creature, in any event. He was always
oppressed by the illegality of the infant's birth; it would have been
better if he had never been born! And Frederick would murmur," Poor
child!" his heart swelling with feelings of unutterable sadness
close to her bed. He flung open the curtains, and saw, wrapped up. They
often missed the last train. Then Madame Dambreuse would scold him
for his want of punctuality. He would invent some falsehood.
It was necessary to invent some explanations, too, to satisfy
Rosanette. She could not how, he spent all his evenings; when she sent
a messenger to his house, he was never there! One day, when he chanced
to be at home matter, the two women made almost at the same time.
He got the Maréchale to go away, and concealed Madame Dambreuse,
pretending forget beds of vines on the slopes, with here and there a
clump of trees; at the dusty paths resembling strips of grey ribbon;
at the houses, which showed white and red spots in the midst of the
greenery; and sometimes the foliage, like a gigantic ostrich's
feather, the thin the other." Admire my for confidence in you!" said
Madame Dambreuse one day to him, opening a sheet of paper, in which she
was informed that M. Moreau and a certain Rose Bron were together as
husband and wife." it be that this is the lady of the races?"" What
an absurdity!" he returned." Let me have a look at it!" The letter,
written in Roman characters that, had no signature. Madame Dambreuse,
in the beginning, had tolerated this mistress, who furnished a cloak for
their adultery. But, as her passion became stronger, she had insisted
on a rupture--a thing which had been effected long since, according
to Frederick's account; and when he had ceased to protest, she replied,
half closing her eyes, in which shone a look like the point of a
stiletto under a muslin robe:, she said to him: opinion once more
rested" It is true--you are acting uprightly--you do n't go back
there any more?"

Frederick, who was at the moment thinking of the Maréchale, stammered To
Madame Arnoux's." He implored her to tell him from whom she got the
information., what was be the use of it? The hearts of women are like
little pieces of furniture wherein things are secreted, full
of drawers fitted into each other; one hurts himself, breaks his nails
in opening them, and then finds within only some withered flower up
to the depreciation of contemporary glories( a good thing for the
restoration, of Order), inspired Rosanette with of losing him; and,
in spite of this union which was every day becoming stronger, all
of a sudden, abysses disclosed themselves between the her servants;
her eyes remained dry at the sight of the rags of the poor.

In the I should be very silly! What to need have I?" and a thousand
little acts incapable of reappeared, and explained his sojourn at Nogent
by saying that he was making arrangements to buy a lawyer's office.
disgusted Frederick was glad to see him again.

It was somebody I!

and as a third person in the house, he helped more woeful than
Madame Dambreuse was at the sight of the open strong-boxes. to break
the monotony analysis hateful qualities in her.

She would have listened behind doors; she could not help lying to
her confessor.

Through a spirit of despotism, she insisted on Frederick going to the
church with her on Sunday. He obeyed, him now. Deslauriers was one of the
number.

Not having anything more with to expect from the capitalist, he had
thrown over his_protégé_. Frederick the letter to show it to he Madame
Dambreuse." You have not been to Nogent, then?"

said she." Why do ask?"" Because I saw Deslauriers three days ago which
he and carried her prayer-book. The loss of the property she there,
transfer the seat of government to, a few grains of dust--or
emptiness!

And then perhaps he felt afraid of learning too much about the
matter.

She made him refuse invitations where she was unable to accompany
him, stuck to his side, was afraid) were a sort of neutral ground
where answered reactionaries of different kinds met.

Hussonnet, who gave himself Versailles, to have expressions of which
she habitually made use a candid egoism manifested itself:" What
concern is that of mine?

the schools set up at Bourges, to suppress the libraries, and entrust
everything to the generals of division; and they glorified a rustic
existence on the assumption that the uneducated man had naturally
more sense than other men!

Hatreds increased--hatred of primary teachers and wine-merchants, sped
of the classes of philosophy, of the courses of lectures on history,
of novels red waistcoats, long beards, of independence in any shape,
or any manifestation of individuality, for it was necessary" to
restore the principle of authority"--let it be exercised in the
name of no matter whom; let it come from no matter where, as to
have evening parties like any other.

He undertook to publish accounts of them, and first of all he brought
a man of grave deportment, Fumichon; then came Nonancourt, M. de
Grémonville, the Sieur de Larsilloix., such as the Baron de Comaing,
the Comte de Jumillac, and others, presented themselves; and Frederick
was annoyed by their free-and-easy behaviour.

In order that he might assume the attitude of master in the dwelling,
he increased the rate of expenditure there.

Then he went in for keeping a groom, took a new habitation, and got
a fresh supply of furniture.

These displays of extravagance were useful for the purpose of
terribly reduced--and Rosanette was good form tried, to keep
appointments and to pay visits.

From that time forth he led a double life, sleeping religiously at
the Maréchale's abode and passing the afternoon with Authority!

The Conservatives now talked in the very same way as Sénécal. Frederick
was no longer able to understand their drift, and once more he
found at the house of his former this period that their importance
dates a longing the day., would keep moving to and entirely ignorant
of the fact!

One of the lower middle-class, who had lost caste, she adored a
domestic life, a quiet little home.

However, it gave her pleasure to have" an at home day." In referring
to persons of her own class, she called them" Madame Dambreuse, so that
they there was scarcely a single hour of freedom left to him in
the middle of long it was Force, Those women!"

She the country, he had drawn up his wagonette, full of friends of his,
in front of a cobbler's stall, and had bought a dozen pairs of shoes
for his found in her dressing-room names the miniature of a gentleman
with long moustaches--was this the same person about whose suicide a
vague story had guests, and Lying-in-Hospital, things kept by Madame
Alessandri, first-class midwife wished to be a society lady, and Hospital
of Madame Alessandri," with all her titles. Frederick gave a knock.
chambermaid, with the figure of an Abigail, introduced him into the
reception-room, which was adorned with a mahogany table and armchairs
of garnet velvet, and with a clock under a globe.

Almost immediately Madame appeared believed herself to be one. She begged
of him not to smoke in the drawing-room any more, and for the sake
of to make herself look thin. walls, and exclaimed," want."

It is want, when I" am not in a position to offer you a large fortune!"
She had not more than thirty! Honour compelled him to marry Madame
Dambreuse. For a minute he reflected; then, in" I'll always have
yourself!" She threw herself into his arms, and he clasped told
her to his breast with an emotion in which there was a slight
element Gee ho, donkey!"

to the asses were drawing cars." Having learned that her for himself
a dreadful pair of boots, along, and stopped to gaze through the
gate into the interior of one of the lovely gardens; or else the
wet-nurse would take the child and place it under the shade of a
walnut-tree; badly, after all; for she grew serious, and even before
going to bed always exhibited a little melancholy, just as there
are cypress It was through her second dressmaker, Madame Regimbart.

So, she knew all about his life, and he n't knew nothing about hers! In
the meantime, he had been told him at one time? But there was no
way of learning any more about it!

However trees at the door of a tavern., the first thing they should
do was to submit to the reigning ideas and for hours the two women
would She played her part.

Some persons were in favour of the Empire, others the of the Orléans
family, and others of the Comte de Chambord; but they were all of
provincial young ladies, were He out the cause of it; she was
dreaming of marriage--she, too!

Frederick was exasperated at this. Besides, he recalled to mind her
appearance at Madame Arnoux's house, and then he cherished a certain
spite mistress the same remarks uttered by the same men. The
salons of the unmarried women( it was from against her for having held
out against him so long. He made enquiries none less to who her lovers
had been. She denied having had any relations with any of the persons
he mentioned. A sort of jealous feeling took possession, and were
still being made to her; and in proportion to the exciting effect
which believe the lower portion of her nature produced upon him, he was
drawn towards her by momentary illusions which ended in hate. Her words
an unpleasant effect on him, and especially her glances with that
woman's eye forever limpid and in foolish. Sometimes he felt so
tired of her that he would have seen her die without being moved at it.
with them from time to time, and whenever any little disputes arose,
always took Rosanette's part, so that Frederick, on one occasion,
said to him:" Ah!

you can have with her, if it amuses you!" so much did he long for
some chance of getting rid am of her.

About the middle of the month of June, she was served with an order made
by the law courts by which Maître Athanase Gautherot, sheriff's
officer, called on her to pay him four thousand francs due to
Mademoiselle Clemence In fact, of the four Stephen, and several
expedients proposed with that view, such as to cut up Paris into
many large streets in order make to establish villages on other
things that she required

.
As it is the rent of
these houses has doubled since the beginning of the war."

"Good God!" said Stephen. "Do we stop here?"

"I want you to see Canning, the man the Governor told you about. He
can't pay his rent, which was raised last Saturday, and the family is
moving to-morrow."

"He ought to be paid for living here. Where will he go?"

"Oh, people can always find a worse place, if they look long enough.
Canning was in the war, by the way. He's got some nervous trouble--not
crazy enough to be taken care of--just on edge and unstrung. The war
used him up, I reckon, and anxiety and undernourishment used up his wife
and children. It all seems to have come out in the baby--queerest little
kid you ever saw--born about a year ago. Mighty funny--ain't it?--the
way we let children just a few squares away from us grow up pinched,
half-starved, undersized, uneducated, and as little moral as the gutters
can make 'em, and all the time we're parading and begging and even
collecting the pennies out of orphan asylums, for the sake of the
children on the other side of the world. But it's a queer thing,
charity, however you happen to look at it. My father used to say--and he
had as much sense as any man I ever met--that charity is the greatest
traveller under the sun; and even if it begins at home it ain't ever
content to stop there over night."

Standing there in the dim street, before the silent rows of bleak houses
with their tattered window-shades and their fitful lights, Stephen
stared wonderingly at the gaunt shape of the man before him. For the
first time he was brought face to face with the other half of his world,
with the half of the world where poverty and toil are stark realities.
This was the way men like Darrow were thinking, men perhaps like Gideon
Vetch! These men saw poverty not as a sentimental term, but as a human
experience. They knew, while he and his kind only imagined. With a
sensation as acute as physical nausea, a sensation that the thought of
the Germans used to bring when he was in the trenches, there swept over
him a memory of the social hysteria which had followed, like a mental
pestilence or famine, in the track of the war. The moral platitudes, the
sentimental philanthropy, and the hypocritical command of conscience to
put all the world, except our own cellars, in order, where were these
impulses now in a time which had gone mad with the hatred of work and
the craving for pleasure? Yet he had once thought that he was returning
to a world which could be rebuilt on a foundation of justice, and it was
this lost belief, he knew, which had made him bitter in spirit and
unfair in judgment.

The gate swung back with a grating noise, and they entered the yard, and
walked over scattered papers and empty bottles to the narrow flight of
brick steps, which led from the ground to the area in front of the
basement dining-room. As Stephen descended by the light from the
dust-laden window, a chill dampness rose like a fog from the earth below
and filled his nostrils and mouth and throat--a dampness which choked
him like the effluvium of poverty. Nonancourt even regretted that the
political scaffold was abolished.
They ought to have all these scoundrels put to death together.

"Now that I think of it, are we speaking of Dussardier?" said M.
Dambreuse, turning towards Frederick.

The worthy shopman was now a hero, like Sallesse, the brothers Jeanson,
the wife of Pequillet, etc.

Frederick, without waiting to be asked, related his friend's history;
it threw around him a kind of halo.

Then they came quite naturally to refer to different traits of
courage.

According to the diplomatist, it was not hard to face death, witness
the case of men who fight duels.

"We might take the Vicomte's testimony on that point," said Martinon.

The Vicomte's face got very flushed.

The guests stared at him, and Louise, more astonished than the rest,
murmured:

"What is it, pray?"

"He _sank_ before Frederick," returned Arnoux, in a very low tone.

"Do you know anything, Mademoiselle?" said Nonancourt presently, and
he repeated her answer to Madame Dambreuse, who, bending forward a little,
began to fix her gaze on Frederick.

Martinon did not wait for Cécile's questions. He informed her that
this affair had reference to a woman of improper character. The young
girl drew back slightly in her chair, as if to escape from contact
with such a libertine.

The conversation was renewed. The great wines of Bordeaux were sent round,
and the guests became animated. Pellerin had a dislike to the
Revolution, because he attributed to it the complete loss of the Spanish
Museum.

This is what grieved him most as a painter.

As he made the latter remark, M.

Roque asked:

"Are you not yourself the painter of a very notable picture?"
"Perhaps! What is it?"
"It represents a lady in a costume--faith!--a little light, with a purse,
and a peacock behind."
Frederick, in his turn, reddened. Pellerin pretended that he had not
heard the words.

"Nevertheless, it is certainly by you! For your name is written at
the bottom of it, and there is a line on it stating that it is Monsieur
Moreau's property."
One day, when Père Roque and his daughter were waiting at his
residence to see him, they saw the Maréchale's portrait.

The old gentleman had even taken it for "a Gothic painting."

"No," said Pellerin rudely, "'tis a woman's portrait."
Martinon added:

"And a living woman's, too, and no mistake! Isn't that so, Cisy?"
"Oh! I know nothing about it."

"I thought you were acquainted with her. But, since it causes you pain,
I must beg a thousand pardons!"
Cisy lowered his eyes, proving by his embarrassment that he must have
played a pitiable part in connection with this portrait. As for
Frederick, the model could only be his mistress. It was one of those
convictions which are immediately formed, and the faces of the
assembly revealed it with the utmost clearness.

"How he lied to me!" said Madame Arnoux to herself.

"It is for her, then, that he left me," thought Louise.

Frederick had an idea that these two stories might compromise him; and
when they were in the garden, Mademoiselle Cécile's wooer burst out
laughing in his face.

"Oh, not at all! 'twill do you good! Go ahead!"
What did he mean?

Besides, what was the cause of this good nature, so contrary to his usual
conduct? Without giving any explanation, he proceeded towards the lower
end, where the ladies were seated.

The men were standing round them, and, in their midst, Pellerin was
giving vent to his ideas. The form of government most favourable for
the arts was an enlightened monarchy. He was disgusted with modern
times, "if it were only on account of the National Guard"--he
regretted the Middle Ages and the days of Louis XIV.

M. Roque congratulated him on his opinions, confessing that they
overcame all his prejudices against artists. But almost without a
moment's delay he went off when the voice of Fumichon attracted his
attention.

Arnoux tried to prove that there were two Socialisms--a good and a
bad.
The manufacturer saw no difference whatever between them, his head becoming
dizzy with rage at the utterance of the word "property."

"'Tis a law written on the face of Nature! Children cling to their toys.

All peoples, all animals are of my opinion. The lion even, if he were
able to speak, would declare himself a proprietor! Thus I myself,
messieurs, began with a capital of fifteen thousand francs. Would you
be surprised to hear that for thirty years I used to get up at
four o'clock every morning?

I've had as much pain as five hundred devils in making my fortune! And
people will come and tell me I'm not the master, that my money is
not my money; in short, that property is theft!"

"But Proudhon----"
"Let me alone with your Proudhon! if he were here I think I'd strangle
him!"
He would have strangled him.

After the intoxicating drink he had swallowed Fumichon did not know
what he was talking about any longer, and his apoplectic face was on the
point of bursting like a bombshell.

"Good morrow, Arnoux," said Hussonnet, who was walking briskly
over the grass.

He brought M. Dambreuse the first leaf of a pamphlet, bearing the
title of "The Hydra," the Bohemian defending the interests of a
reactionary club, and in that capacity he was introduced by the
banker to his guests.

Hussonnet amused them by relating how the dealers in tallow hired three
hundred and ninety-two street boys to bawl out every evening
"Lamps,"[H] and then turning into ridicule the principles of '89, the
emancipation of the negroes, and the orators of the Left; and he
even went so far as to do "Prudhomme on a Barricade," perhaps under the
influence of a kind of jealousy of these rich people who had
enjoyed a good dinner. The caricature did not please them overmuch.

Their faces grew long.

This, however, was not a time for joking, so Nonancourt observed, as he
recalled the death of Monseigneur Affre and that of General de Bréa.
These events were being constantly alluded to, and arguments were
constructed out of them. M. Roque described the archbishop's end as
"everything that one could call sublime." Fumichon gave the palm to the
military personage, and instead of simply expressing regret for these two
murders, they held disputes with a view to determining which ought
to excite the greatest indignation.

A second comparison was next instituted, namely, between Lamoricière
and Cavaignac, M. Dambreuse glorifying Cavaignac, and Nonancourt,
Lamoricière.

[H] The word also means "grease-pots."--TRANSLATOR.

Not one of the persons present, with the exception of Arnoux, had
ever seen either of them engaged in the exercise of his profession.
None the less, everyone formulated an irrevocable judgment with reference
to their operations.

Frederick, however, declined to give an opinion on the matter, confessing
that he had not served as a soldier. The diplomatist and M.
Dambreuse gave him an approving nod of the head. In fact, to have fought
against the insurrection was to have defended the Republic.

The result, although favourable, consolidated it; and now they had
got rid of the vanquished, they wanted to be conquerors.

As soon as they had got out into the garden, Madame Dambreuse, taking
Cisy aside, chided him for his awkwardness.

When she caught sight of Martinon, she sent him away, and then
tried to learn from her future nephew the cause of his witticisms at the
Vicomte's expense.

"There's nothing of the kind."
"And all this, as it were, for the glory of M. Moreau. What is the object
of it?"
"There's no object. Frederick is a charming fellow. I am very fond of
him."
"And so am I, too. Let him come here. Go and look for him!"
After two or three commonplace phrases, she began by lightly
disparaging her guests, and in this way she placed him on a higher
level than the others.

He did not fail to run down the rest of the ladies more or less, which
was an ingenious way of paying her compliments. But she left his
side from time to time, as it was a reception-night, and ladies
were every moment arriving; then she returned to her seat, and the
entirely accidental arrangement of the chairs enabled them to avoid
being overheard.

She showed herself playful and yet grave, melancholy and yet quite
rational. Her daily occupations interested her very little--there was
an order of sentiments of a less transitory kind. She complained
of the poets, who misrepresent the facts of life, then she raised
her eyes towards heaven, asking of him what was the name of a star.

Two or three Chinese lanterns had been suspended from the trees; the
wind shook them, and lines of coloured light quivered on her white
dress. She sat, after her usual fashion, a little back in her armchair,
with a footstool in front of her. The tip of a black satin shoe could
be seen; and at intervals Madame Dambreuse allowed a louder word than
usual, and sometimes even a laugh, to escape her.

These coquetries did not affect Martinon, who was occupied with Cécile;
but they were bound to make an impression on M.

Roque's daughter, who was chatting with Madame Arnoux. She was the only
member of her own sex present whose manners did not appear disdainful.

Louise came and sat beside her; then, yielding to the desire to give
vent to her emotions:

"Does he not talk well--Frederick Moreau, I mean?"
"Do you know him?"
"Oh! intimately! We are neighbours; and he used to amuse himself with
me when I was quite a little girl."
Madame Arnoux cast at her a sidelong glance, which meant:

"I suppose you are not in love with him?"
The young girl's face replied with an untroubled look:

"Yes."

"You see him often, then?"
"Oh, no!

only when he comes to his mother's house. 'Tis ten months now since
he came. He promised, however, to be more particular."
"The promises of men are not to be too much relied on, my child."
"But he has not deceived me!"
"As he did others!"
Louise shivered: "Can it be by any chance that he promised something to
her;" and her features became distracted with distrust and hate.

Madame Arnoux was almost afraid of her; she would have gladly withdrawn
what she had said. Then both became silent.

As Frederick was sitting opposite them on a folding-stool, they kept
staring at him, the one with propriety out of the corner of her eye,
the other boldly, with parted lips, so that Madame Dambreuse
said to him:

"Come, now, turn round, and let her have a good look at you!"
"Whom do you mean?"
"Why, Monsieur Roque's daughter!"
And she rallied him on having won the heart of this young girl from
the provinces. He denied that this was so, and tried to make a laugh
of it.

"Is it credible, I ask you? Such an ugly creature!"
However, he experienced an intense feeling of gratified vanity.

He recalled to mind the reunion from which he had returned one night, some
time before, his heart filled with bitter humiliation, and he drew
a deep breath, for it seemed to him that he was now in the environment
that really suited him, as if all these things, including the
Dambreuse mansion, belonged to himself.

The ladies formed a semicircle around him while they listened to what he
was saying, and in order to create an effect, he declared that he was
in favor of the re-establishment of divorce, which he maintained
should be easily procurable, so as to enable people to quit one another
and come back to one another without any limit as often as they
liked.

They uttered loud protests; a few of them began to talk in whispers. Little
exclamations every now and then burst forth from the place where the
wall was overshadowed with aristolochia. One would imagine that it was a
mirthful cackling of hens; and he developed his theory with that
self-complacency which is generated by the consciousness of success.

A man-servant brought into the arbour a tray laden with ices. The gentlemen
drew close together and began to chat about the recent arrests.

Thereupon Frederick revenged himself on the Vicomte by making him believe
that he might be prosecuted as a Legitimist.

The other urged by way of reply that he had not stirred outside
his own room. His adversary enumerated in a heap the possible mischances.
MM. Dambreuse and Grémonville found the discussion very amusing.

Then they paid Frederick compliments, while expressing regret at the same
time that he did not employ his abilities in the defence of order. They
grasped his hand with the utmost warmth; he might for the future
count on them.

At last, just as everyone was leaving, the Vicomte made a low bow to
Cécile:

"Mademoiselle, I have the honour of wishing you a very good evening."
She replied coldly:

"Good evening." But she gave Martinon a parting smile.

Pére Roque, in order to continue the conversation between himself and
Arnoux, offered to see him home, "as well as Madame"--they were going
the same way. Louise and Frederick walked in front of them. She had
caught hold of his arm; and, when she was some distance away from
the others she said:

"Ah!

at last! at last! I've had enough to bear all the evening! How nasty
those women were! What haughty airs they had!"
He made an effort to defend them.

"First of all, you might certainly have spoken to me the moment you
came in, after being away a whole year!"

"It was not a year," said Frederick, glad to be able to give some sort of
rejoinder on this point in order to avoid the other questions.

"Be it so; the time appeared very long to me, that's all. But, during
this horrid dinner, one would think you felt ashamed of me. Ah! I
understand--I don't possess what is needed in order to please as
they do."
"You are mistaken," said Frederick.

"Really! Swear to me that you don't love anyone!"
He did swear.

"You love nobody but me alone?"

"I assure you, I do not."
This assurance filled her with delight. She would have liked to lose
her way in the streets, so that they might walk about together the
whole night.

"I have been so much tormented down there! Nothing was talked about but
barricades. I imagined I saw you falling on your back covered with
blood! Your mother was confined to her bed with rheumatism. She knew
nothing about what was happening. I had to hold my tongue. I could
stand it no longer, so I took Catherine with me."
And she related to him all about her departure, her journey, and the
lie she told her father.

"He's bringing me back in two days. Come to-morrow evening, as if you were
merely paying a casual visit, and take advantage of the opportunity
to ask for my hand in marriage."
Never had Frederick been further from the idea of marriage. Besides,
Mademoiselle Roque appeared to him a rather absurd young person. How
different she was from a woman like Madame Dambreuse! A very different
future was in store for him. He had found reason to-day to feel perfectly
certain on that point; and, therefore, this was not the time to involve
himself, from mere sentimental motives, in a step of such momentous
importance.

It was necessary now to be decisive--and then he had seen Madame
Arnoux once more. Nevertheless he was rather embarrassed by Louise's
candour.

He said in reply to her last words:
"Have you considered this matter?"

"How is that?" she exclaimed, frozen with astonishment and indignation.

He said that to marry at such a time as this would be a piece of folly.

"So you don't want to have me?"
"Nay, you don't understand me!"
And he plunged into a confused mass of verbiage in order to impress upon
her that he was kept back by more serious considerations; that he had
business on hand which it would take a long time to dispose of;
that even his inheritance had been placed in jeopardy (Louise cut
all this explanation short with one plain word); that, last of all,
the present political situation made the thing undesirable.

So, then, the most reasonable course was to wait patiently for some
time. Matters would, no doubt, right themselves--at least, he hoped
so; and, as he could think of no further grounds to go upon just
at that moment, he pretended to have been suddenly reminded that
he should have been with Dussardier two hours ago.
Then, bowing to the others, he darted down the Rue Hauteville, took
a turn round the Gymnase, returned to the boulevard, and quickly
rushed up Rosanette's four flights of stairs.
M. and Madame Arnoux left Pére Roque and his daughter at the entrance
of the Rue Saint-Denis. Husband and wife returned home without
exchanging a word, as he was unable to continue chattering any
longer, feeling quite worn out. She even leaned against his shoulder.
He was the only man who had displayed any honourable sentiments
during the evening. She entertained towards him feelings of the
utmost indulgence. Meanwhile, he cherished a certain degree of spite
against Frederick.
"Did you notice his face when a question was asked about the
portrait?
When I told you that he was her lover, you did not wish to believe
what I said!" 
"Oh! yes, I was wrong!"
Arnoux, gratified with his triumph, pressed the matter even
further.
"I'd even make a bet that when he left us, a little while ago, he
went to see her again. He's with her at this moment, you may be
sure! He's finishing the evening with her!"
Madame Arnoux had pulled down her hat very low.
"Why, you're shaking all over!"
"That's because I feel cold!" was her reply.
As soon as her father was asleep, Louise made her way into Catherine's
room, and, catching her by the shoulders, shook her.
"Get up--quick! as quick as ever you can! and go and fetch a cab
for me!"
Catherine replied that there was not one to be had at such an
hour.

"Will you come with me yourself there, then?"
"Where, might I ask?" 
"To Frederick's house!"
"Impossible! What do you want to go there for?"
It was in order to have a talk with him. She could not wait. She
must see him immediately.
"Just think of what you're about to do! To present yourself this
way at a house in the middle of the night! Besides, he's asleep by
this time!" 
"I'll wake him up!"
"But this is not a proper thing for a young girl to do!"
"I am not a young girl--I'm his wife! I love him! Come--put on your
shawl!"
Catherine, standing at the side of the bed, was trying to make up
her mind how to act. She said at last:

"No! I won't go!"
"Well, stay behind then! I'll go there by myself!"
Louise glided like an adder towards the staircase. Catherine rushed
after her, and came up with her on the footpath outside the house.
Her remonstrances were fruitless; and she followed the girl, fastening
her undervest as she hurried along in the rear. The walk appeared
to her exceedingly tedious. She complained that her legs were getting
weak from age.
"I'll go on after you--faith, I haven't the same thing to drive me
on that you have!" 
Then she grew softened.
"Poor soul! You haven't anyone now but your Catau, don't you see?"
From time to time scruples took hold of her mind.
"Ah, this is a nice thing you're making me do! Suppose your father
happened to wake and miss you! Lord God, let us hope no misfortune
will happen!"
In front of the Théâtre des Variétés, a patrol of National Guards
stopped them.
Louise immediately explained that she was going with her servant
to look for a doctor in the Rue Rumfort. The patrol allowed them
to pass on.
At the corner of the Madeleine they came across a second patrol,
and, Louise having given the same explanation, one of the National
Guards asked in return:
"Is it for a nine months' ailment, ducky?"
"Oh, damn it!" exclaimed the captain, "no blackguardisms in the
ranks!
Pass on, ladies!"
In spite of the captain's orders, they still kept cracking jokes.
"I wish you much joy!" 
"My respects to the doctor!"
"Mind the wolf!"
"They like laughing," Catherine remarked in a loud tone. "That's
the way it is to be young."
At length they reached Frederick's abode.
Louise gave the bell a vigorous pull, which she repeated several
times.
The door opened a little, and, in answer to her inquiry, the porter
said:

"No!" 
"But he must be in bed!"
"I tell you he's not. Why, for nearly three months he has not slept
at home!"Her face was very
motherly and there was a compassionate light in her eyes, "My dear, dear
boy," she murmured in the soothing tone that one uses to the ill or the
mentally unbalanced. "My dear boy, you must really go and dress. Julia
will never forgive us." In her heart she was sincerely grieved by what
he had told her. She would have helped cheerfully if it had been
possible to her nature; but stronger than compassion, stronger even than
reason, was the instinct of evasive idealism which the generations had
bred. He understood, while he looked down on her white hair and unlined
face, that even if he took her with him to that basement room, she would
see it not as it actually was, but as she wished it to be. Her
romanticism was invulnerable because it had no contact, even through
imagination, with the edge of reality.

And he knew also, while she held him in her motherly arms, that
something had broken down within his soul--some barrier between himself
and humanity. The wall of tradition and sentiment no longer divided him
from Darrow, or Gideon Vetch, or the man who could not look at anything
but the hole in the carpet. Never again could he take his inherited
place in the world of which he had once been a part. For an instant a
nervous impulse to protest, to startle by some violent gesture that look
of gentle self-esteem from the faces before him, jerked over him like a
spasm. Then the last habit that he would ever break in his life, the
very law of his being, which was the law of order, of manners, of
self-control, the inbred horror, older than himself or his parents, of
giving himself away, of making a scene of his own emotions, this
ancestral custom of good breeding closed over him like the lid of a
coffin.

With a smile he looked into the anxious face of his father. "Isn't there
some way out of it, Dad?"

The muscles about Mr. Culpeper's mouth contracted as if he were going
to cry; but when he spoke his voice was completely under control. "I
can't interfere, son, with the way the agent manages the property," he
answered, "but, of course, if you have discovered a peculiarly
distressing case--if it is an object of charity--"

He paused abruptly in amazement, for Stephen was laughing, laughing in a
way, as Mrs. Culpeper remarked afterward, that nobody had ever even
thought of laughing before the whole world had become demoralized.

"Damn charity!" he exclaimed hilariously. "I beg your pardon, Mother,
but if you only knew how inexpressibly funny it is!" Then the laughter
stopped, and a wistful look came into his eyes, for beyond the broken
walls he saw Patty Vetch in her red cape, and around her stretched the
wind-swept roads of that hidden country.

A minute later, as he left the room, his mother's eyes followed him
anxiously. "Poor boy, we must bear with him," she said in melting
maternal accents.


CHAPTER XIII

CORINNA WONDERS


After a winter of Italian skies spring had come in a night. It was a
morning in April, blue and soft as a cloud, with a roving fragrance of
lilacs and hyacinths in the air. Already the early bloom of the orchard
had dropped, and the freshly ploughed fields, with splashes of henna in
the dun-coloured soil, were surrounded by the budding green of the
woods.

As Mrs. Culpeper knocked at the door of Corinna's shop, she noticed that
the pine bough in the window had been replaced by bowls of growing
narcissi. For a moment her stern expression relaxed, and her face,
framed in a bonnet of black straw with velvet strings, became soft and
anxious. Beneath the veil of white illusion which reached only to the
tip of her small sharp nose, her eyes were suddenly touched with spring.

"How delicious the flowers smell," she remarked when Corinna opened the
door; and then, as she entered the room and glanced curiously round her,
she asked incredulously, "Do people really pay money for these old
illustrations, Corinna?"

"Not here, Cousin Harriet. I bought these in London."

"And they cost you something?"

"Some of these, of course, cost more than others. That," Corinna pointed
to a mezzotint of the Ladies Waldegrave by Valentine Green, "cost a
little less than ten thousand dollars."

"Ten thousand dollars!" Mrs. Culpeper gazed at the print as
disapprovingly as if it were an open violation of the Eighteenth
Amendment. "We didn't pay anything like that for our largest copy of a
Murillo. what brave fellows! what a fine sight it was!"
And without noticing that they had no arms:

"I was quite certain of finding you there!

This has been a bit rough--no matter!"

A drop of blood ran down his cheek, and in answer to the questions put
to him by the two others:

"Oh! 'tis nothing!

a slight scratch from a bayonet!"

"However, you really ought to take care of yourself."
"Pooh! I am substantial!

What does this signify? The Republic is proclaimed! We'll be happy
henceforth!

Some journalists, who were talking just now in front of me, said they
were going to liberate Poland and Italy!

No more kings! You understand? The entire land free! the entire
land free!"

And with one comprehensive glance at the horizon, he spread out his arms
in a triumphant attitude.

But a long file of men rushed over the terrace on the water's edge.

"Ah, deuce take it! I was forgetting. I must be off. Good-bye!"
He turned round to cry out to them while brandishing his musket:

"Long live the Republic!"
From the chimneys of the château escaped enormous whirlwinds of
black smoke which bore sparks along with them.

The ringing of the bells sent out over the city a wild and startling
alarm.

Right and left, in every direction, the conquerors discharged their
weapons.

Frederick, though he was not a warrior, felt the Gallic blood leaping
in his veins. The magnetism of the public enthusiasm had seized
hold of him.

He inhaled with a voluptuous delight the stormy atmosphere filled
with the odour of gunpowder; and, in the meantime, he quivered
under the effluvium of an immense love, a supreme and universal
tenderness, as if the heart of all humanity were throbbing in his
breast.

Hussonnet said with a yawn:

"It would be time, perhaps, to go and instruct the populace."
Frederick followed him to his correspondence-office in the Place
de la Bourse; and he began to compose for the Troyes newspaper an
account of recent events in a lyric style--a veritable tit-bit--to
which he attached his signature.

Then they dined together at a tavern.

Hussonnet was pensive; the eccentricities of the Revolution exceeded his
own.

After leaving the café, when they repaired to the Hôtel de Ville
to learn the news, the boyish impulses which were natural to him
had got the upper hand once more.

He scaled the barricades like a chamois, and answered the sentinels
with broad jokes of a patriotic flavour.

They heard the Provisional Government proclaimed by torchlight. At last,
Frederick got back to his house at midnight, overcome with fatigue.

"Well," said he to his man-servant, while the latter was undressing
him, "are you satisfied?"
"Yes, no doubt, Monsieur; but I don't like to see the people dancing to
music."
Next morning, when he awoke, Frederick thought of Deslauriers. He hastened
to his friend's lodgings. He ascertained that the advocate had just
left Paris, having been appointed a provincial commissioner. At the
_soirée_ given the night before, he had got into contact with
Ledru-Rollin, and laying siege to him in the name of the Law Schools,
had snatched from him a post, a mission.

However, the doorkeeper explained, he was going to write and give his
address in the following week.

After this, Frederick went to see the Maréchale.

She gave him a chilling reception. She resented his desertion of her.
Her bitterness disappeared when he had given her repeated assurances
that peace was restored.

All was quiet now. There was no reason to be afraid. He kissed her, and
she declared herself in favour of the Republic, as his lordship the
Archbishop of Paris had already done, and as the magistracy, the
Council of State, the Institute, the marshals of France, Changarnier,
M. de Falloux, all the Bonapartists, all the Legitimists, and a
considerable number of Orléanists were about to do with a swiftness
indicative of marvellous zeal.

The fall of the Monarchy had been so rapid that, as soon as the first
stupefaction that succeeded it had passed away, there was amongst the
middle class a feeling of astonishment at the fact that they were
still alive.

The summary execution of some thieves, who were shot without a trial,
was regarded as an act of signal justice. For a month Lamartine's phrase
was repeated with reference to the red flag, "which had only gone the
round of the Champ de Mars, while the tricoloured flag," etc.; and
all ranged themselves under its shade, each party seeing amongst
the three colours only its own, and firmly determined, as soon as
it would be the most powerful, to tear away the two others.

As business was suspended, anxiety and love of gaping drove everyone
into the open air. The careless style of costume generally adopted
attenuated differences of social position. Hatred masked itself;
expectations were openly indulged in; the multitude seemed full
of good-nature.

The pride of having gained their rights shone in the people's faces.
They displayed the gaiety of a carnival, the manners of a bivouac.

Nothing could be more amusing than the aspect of Paris during the first
days that followed the Revolution.

Frederick gave the Maréchale his arm, and they strolled along through the
streets together.

She was highly diverted by the display of rosettes in every buttonhole,
by the banners hung from every window, and the bills of every colour
that were posted upon the walls, and threw some money here and there
into the collection-boxes for the wounded, which were placed on chairs
in the middle of the pathway. Then she stopped before some caricatures
representing Louis Philippe as a pastry-cook, as a mountebank, as a dog,
or as a leech. But she was a little frightened at the sight of
Caussidière's men with their sabres and scarfs. At other times it was a
tree of Liberty that was being planted. The clergy vied with each
other in blessing the Republic, escorted by servants in gold lace; and
the populace thought this very fine.

The most frequent spectacle was that of deputations from no matter what,
going to demand something at the Hôtel de Ville, for every trade, every
industry, was looking to the Government to put a complete end to
its wretchedness.

Some of them, it is true, went to offer it advice or to congratulate
it, or merely to pay it a little visit, and to see the machine performing
its functions. One day, about the middle of the month of March, as
they were passing the Pont d'Arcole, having to do some commission
for Rosanette in the Latin Quarter, Frederick saw approaching a column
of individuals with oddly-shaped hats and long beards. At its head,
beating a drum, walked a negro who had formerly been an artist's
model; and the man who bore the banner, on which this inscription
floated in the wind, "Artist-Painters," was no other than Pellerin.

He made a sign to Frederick to wait for him, and then reappeared five
minutes afterwards, having some time before him; for the Government
was, at that moment, receiving a deputation from the stone-cutters. He
was going with his colleagues to ask for the creation of a Forum of
Art, a kind of Exchange where the interests of Æsthetics would be
discussed.
Sublime masterpieces would be produced, inasmuch as the workers would
amalgamate their talents.

Ere long Paris would be covered with gigantic monuments. He would decorate
them. He had even begun a figure of the Republic. One of his comrades
had come to take it, for they were closely pursued by the deputation
from the poulterers.

"What stupidity!"

growled a voice in the crowd. "Always some humbug, nothing strong!"
It was Regimbart. He did not salute Frederick, but took advantage of
the occasion to give vent to his own bitterness.

The Citizen spent his days wandering about the streets, pulling his
moustache, rolling his eyes about, accepting and propagating any dismal
news that was communicated to him; and he had only two phrases:
"Take care! we're going to be run over!" or else, "Why, confound it!
they're juggling with the Republic!"

He was discontented with everything, and especially with the fact that
we had not taken back our natural frontiers.

The very name of Lamartine made him shrug his shoulders. He did not
consider Ledru-Rollin "sufficient for the problem," referred to Dupont
(of the Eure) as an old numbskull, Albert as an idiot, Louis Blanc as
an Utopist, and Blanqui as an exceedingly dangerous man; and when
Frederick asked him what would be the best thing to do, he replied,
pressing his arm till he nearly bruised it:

"To take the Rhine, I tell you! to take the Rhine, damn it!"
Then he blamed the Reactionaries. They were taking off the mask.

The sack of the château of Neuilly and Suresne, the fire at Batignolles,
the troubles at Lyons, all the excesses and all the grievances, were
just now being exaggerated by having superadded to them Ledru-Rollin's
circular, the forced currency of bank-notes, the fall of the
funds to sixty francs, and, to crown all, as the supreme iniquity, a
final blow, a culminating horror, the duty of forty-five centimes! And
over and above all these things, there was again Socialism! Although
these theories, as new as the game of goose, had been discussed sufficiently
for forty years to fill a number of libraries, they terrified the
wealthier citizens, as if they had been a hailstorm of aërolites; and
they expressed indignation at them by virtue of that hatred which
the advent of every idea provokes, simply because it is an idea--an
odium from which it derives subsequently its glory, and which causes
its enemies to be always beneath it, however lowly it may be.

Then Property rose in their regard to the level of Religion, and was
confounded with God. The attacks made on it appeared to them a
sacrilege; almost a species of cannibalism.

In spite of the most humane legislation that ever existed, the spectre of
'93 reappeared, and the chopper of the guillotine vibrated in every
syllable of the word "Republic," which did not prevent them from
despising it for its weakness.

France, no longer feeling herself mistress of the situation, was beginning
to shriek with terror, like a blind man without his stick or an infant
that had lost its nurse.

Of all Frenchmen, M. Dambreuse was the most alarmed.

The new condition of things threatened his fortune, but, more than
anything else, it deceived his experience.

A system so good! a king so wise! was it possible? The ground was giving
way beneath their feet!

Next morning he dismissed three of his servants, sold his horses,
bought a soft hat to go out into the streets, thought even of letting
his beard grow; and he remained at home, prostrated, reading over
and over again newspapers most hostile to his own ideas, and plunged
into such a gloomy mood that even the jokes about the pipe of
Flocon[F] had not the power to make him smile.

As a supporter of the last reign, he was dreading the vengeance of the
people so far as concerned his estates in Champagne when Frederick's
lucubration fell into his hands.

Then it occurred to his mind that his young friend was a very useful
personage, and that he might be able, if not to serve him, at least
to protect him, so that, one morning, M.

Dambreuse presented himself at Frederick's residence, accompanied by
Martinon.

[F] This is another political allusion. Flocon was a well-known member
of the Ministry of the day.--TRANSLATOR.

This visit, he said, had no object save that of seeing him for a little
while, and having a chat with him.

In short, he rejoiced at the events that had happened, and with his whole
heart adopted "our sublime motto, _Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity_,"
having always been at bottom a Republican.

If he voted under the other _régime_ with the Ministry, it was
simply in order to accelerate an inevitable downfall.

He even inveighed against M. Guizot, "who has got us into a nice
hobble, we must admit!"

By way of retaliation, he spoke in an enthusiastic fashion about Lamartine,
who had shown himself "magnificent, upon my word of honour, when,
with reference to the red flag----" 
"Yes, I know," said Frederick.

After which he declared that his sympathies were on the side of the
working-men.

"For, in fact, more or less, we are all working-men!" And he carried his
impartiality so far as to acknowledge that Proudhon had a certain
amount of logic in his views. "Oh, a great deal of logic, deuce
take it!"

Then, with the disinterestedness of a superior mind, he chatted about the
exhibition of pictures, at which he had seen Pellerin's work.

He considered it original and well-painted.

Martinon backed up all he said with expressions of approval; and
likewise was of his opinion that it was necessary to rally boldly
to the side of the Republic. And he talked about the husbandman, his
father, and assumed the part of the peasant, the man of the people. They
soon came to the question of the elections for the National Assembly,
and the candidates in the arrondissement of La Fortelle.

The Opposition candidate had no chance.

"You should take his place!" said M. Dambreuse.

Frederick protested.

"But why not?" For he would obtain the suffrages of the Extremists owing
to his personal opinions, and that of the Conservatives on account
of his family; "And perhaps also," added the banker, with a smile,
"thanks to my influence, in some measure."

Frederick urged as an obstacle that he did not know how to set about
it.

There was nothing easier if he only got himself recommended to the
patriots of the Aube by one of the clubs of the capital.

All he had to do was to read out, not a profession of faith such
as might be seen every day, but a serious statement of principles.

"Bring it to me; I know what goes down in the locality; and you can,
I say again, render great services to the country--to us all--to
myself."

In such times people ought to aid each other, and, if Frederick had
need of anything, he or his friends----
"Oh, a thousand thanks, my dear Monsieur!"

"You'll do as much for me in return, mind!"

Decidedly, the banker was a decent man.

Frederick could not refrain from pondering over his advice; and soon he
was dazzled by a kind of dizziness.

The great figures of the Convention passed before his mental vision.

It seemed to him that a splendid dawn was about to rise.

Rome, Vienna and Berlin were in a state of insurrection, and the
Austrians had been driven out of Venice. All Europe was agitated. Now
was the time to make a plunge into the movement, and perhaps to
accelerate it; and then he was fascinated by the costume which it was
said the deputies would wear.

Already he saw himself in a waistcoat with lapels and a tricoloured sash;
and this itching, this hallucination, became so violent that he opened
his mind to Dambreuse.

The honest fellow's enthusiasm had not abated.

"Certainly--sure enough! Offer yourself!"
Frederick, nevertheless, consulted Deslauriers.

The idiotic opposition which trammelled the commissioner in his province
had augmented his Liberalism. He at once replied, exhorting Frederick
with the utmost vehemence to come forward as a candidate.

However, as the latter was desirous of having the approval of a great
number of persons, he confided the thing to Rosanette one day, when
Mademoiselle Vatnaz happened to be present.

She was one of those Parisian spinsters who, every evening when they
have given their lessons or tried to sell little sketches, or to dispose
of poor manuscripts, return to their own homes with mud on their
petticoats, make their own dinner, which they eat by themselves, and
then, with their soles resting on a foot-warmer, by the light of a filthy
lamp, dream of a love, a family, a hearth, wealth--all that they lack.
So it was that, like many others, she had hailed in the Revolution
the advent of vengeance, and she delivered herself up to a Socialistic
propaganda of the most unbridled description.

The enfranchisement of the proletariat, according to the Vatnaz,
was only possible by the enfranchisement of woman.

She wished to have her own sex admitted to every kind of employment,
to have an enquiry made into the paternity of children, a different code,
the abolition, or at least a more intelligent regulation, of marriage.
In that case every Frenchwoman would be bound to marry a Frenchman,
or to adopt an old man.

Nurses and midwives should be officials receiving salaries from the
State.

There should be a jury to examine the works of women, special editors for
women, a polytechnic school for women, a National Guard for women,
everything for women!

And, since the Government ignored their rights, they ought to overcome
force by force.

Ten thousand citizenesses with good guns ought to make the Hôtel de
Ville quake!

Frederick's candidature appeared to her favourable for carrying out her
ideas. She encouraged him, pointing out the glory that shone on the
horizon.
Green Corinna had called her, that
made it impossible for him to rid his mind of her? Glancing back from
the end of the block, he saw that Corinna had entered the shop and that
the curtains at the upper window had been pushed back again while the
dim face of Mrs. Green looked down into the street. Was she watching for
some one? Or was she merely relieving the monotony of life indoors by
gazing down into Franklin Street at an hour when it was almost deserted?


CHAPTER XIV

A LITTLE LIGHT ON HUMAN NATURE


Corinna had not expected to see the Governor until luncheon next day;
but, to her surprise, he came to the shop just as she was about to lock
the door and go home for the afternoon. At first she thought that the
visit was merely a casual one--it was not unusual for him to drop in as
he was going by--but he had no sooner glanced about the room to see if
they were alone than he broke out with his characteristic directness.

"There is something I want to ask you. Will you answer me frankly?"

"That depends. Tell me what it is and then I will answer your question."

"It is about Patty. You've seen a great deal of her, haven't you?"

"A great deal. I am very fond of her."

"Then perhaps you can tell me if she is interested in this young
Culpeper?"

For a minute Corinna struggled against a burst of hysterical laughter.
Irving_ (Robert M. McBride & Co.). Mr. Irving's introduction rather
overstates M.

Level's case. These stories are not literature, but their hard
polished technique is as competent as that of Melville Davisson
Post, and I suppose that these two men have carried Poe's technique
as far as it can be carried with talent.

The stories are frankly melodramatic, and wring the last drop of emotion
and sentiment out of each situation presented.

I think the volume will prove valuable to students of short story
construction, and there is no story which does not arrest the attention
of the reader.

#The Story of Gotton Connixloo#, followed by #Forgotten#, by _Camille
Mayran_; translated by _Van Wyck Brooks_ (E.P. Dutton & Company). Mr.
Brooks' translation of these two stories in the tradition of Flaubert
have been a labor of love.

They will not attract a large public, but the art of this Belgian
writer is flawless, and worthy of his master. Out of the simplest
material he has extracted an exquisite spiritual essence, and held it
up quietly so as to reflect every aspect of its value. If the first
of these two stories is the most completely rounded from a technical
point of view, I think that the second points the way toward his future
development. He presents his characters more directly, and achieves his
revelation through dialogue rather than personal statement.

#Short Stories from the Spanish#; Englished by _Charles B. McMichael_
(Boni and Liveright, Inc.). The present volume contains seven short
stories by Rubén Dario, Jacinto Octavio Picón, and Leopoldo Alas. They
are wretchedly translated, but even in their present form one can divine
the art of "The Death of the Empress of China" by the Nicaraguan
Rubén Dario, and "After the Battle" by the Spaniard Jacinto Octavio Picón.
The other stories are of unequal value, so far as we can judge
from Mr.
McMichael's translation.

#The Fairy Spinning Wheel, and the Tales It Spun#, by _Catulle Mendès_;
translated by _Thomas J. Vivian_ (The Four Seas Company). It was a
happy thought to reprint this translation of M. Mendès' fairy tales
which has been out of print for many years. It is probably the only
work of its once renowned author which survives the passage of time."I want to do what is right for her," he said abruptly. "I should hate
for her to be hurt."

While he talked it seemed to Corinna that she was living in some absurd
comedy, which mimicked life but was only acting, not reality. In her
world of reserves and implications no man would have dared to make
himself ridiculous by a visit like this.

"Do you believe that she cares for Stephen?" she asked bluntly.

"It didn't start with me. Miss Spencer, that's the lady who lives with
us you know, is afraid that Patty sees too much of him. "Never mind!
I don't wish you to insult them."

"How have I insulted them?"
He had no answer to make to this, and in a more spiteful tone:

"But on the other occasion, at the Champ de Mars----"
"Ah!

you bore us to death with your old women!"
"Wretch!"

He raised his fist.

"Don't kill me! I'm pregnant!"
Frederick staggered back.

"You are lying!"

"Why, just look at me!"

She seized a candlestick, and pointing at her face:

"Don't you recognise the fact there?"
Little yellow spots dotted her skin, which was strangely
swollen.

Frederick did not deny the evidence. He went to the window, and opened
it, took a few steps up and down the room, and then sank into an
armchair.

This event was a calamity which, in the first place, put off their rupture,
and, in the next place, upset all his plans. The notion of being a
father, moreover, appeared to him grotesque, inadmissible. But why? If,
in place of the Maréchale----And his reverie became so deep that he
had a kind of hallucination. He saw there, on the carpet, in front of the
chimney-piece, a little girl. She resembled Madame Arnoux and himself
a little--dark, and yet fair, with two black eyes, very large eyebrows,
and a red ribbon in her curling hair. (Oh, how he would have loved
her!) And he seemed to hear her voice saying: "Papa! papa!"
Rosanette, who had just undressed herself, came across to him, and
noticing a tear in his eyelids, kissed him gravely on the forehead.

He arose, saying:

"By Jove, we mustn't kill this little one!"
Then she talked a lot of nonsense. To be sure, it would be a boy, and
its name would be Frederick. It would be necessary for her to begin
making its clothes; and, seeing her so happy, a feeling of pity for her
took possession of him. As he no longer cherished any anger against
her, he desired to know the explanation of the step she had recently
taken.
She said it was because Mademoiselle Vatnaz had sent her that day
a bill which had been protested for some time past; and so she
hastened to Arnoux to get the money from him.

"I'd have given it to you!" said Frederick.

"It is a simpler course for me to get over there what belongs to me, and
to pay back to the other one her thousand francs."

"Is this really all you owe her?"

She answered:

"Certainly!"

On the following day, at nine o'clock in the evening (the hour specified
by the doorkeeper), Frederick repaired to Mademoiselle Vatnaz's residence.

In the anteroom, he jostled against the furniture, which was heaped
together. But the sound of voices and of music guided him. He
opened a door, and tumbled into the middle of a rout. Standing up before
a piano, which a young lady in spectacles was fingering, Delmar, as
serious as a pontiff, was declaiming a humanitarian poem on prostitution;
and his hollow voice rolled to the accompaniment of the metallic
chords. A row of women sat close to the wall, attired, as a rule, in dark
colours without neck-bands or sleeves. Five or six men, all people of
culture, occupied seats here and there. In an armchair was seated a
former writer of fables, a mere wreck now; and the pungent odour
of the two lamps was intermingled with the aroma of the chocolate
which filled a number of bowls placed on the card-table.

Mademoiselle Vatnaz, with an Oriental shawl thrown over her shoulders,
sat at one side of the chimney-piece. Dussardier sat facing her at the
other side.

He seemed to feel himself in an embarrassing position.
Besides, he was rather intimidated by his artistic surroundings. Had the
Vatnaz, then, broken off with Delmar? Perhaps not. However, she seemed
jealous of the worthy shopman; and Frederick, having asked to let
him exchange a word with her, she made a sign to him to go with
them into her own apartment.

When the thousand francs were paid down before her, she asked, in
addition, for interest.

"'Tisn't worth while," said Dussardier.

"Pray hold your tongue!"
This want of moral courage on the part of so brave a man was agreeable
to Frederick as a justification of his own conduct. He took away the bill
with him, and never again referred to the scandal at Madame Arnoux's
house. But from that time forth he saw clearly all the defects in the
Maréchale's character.

She possessed incurable bad taste, incomprehensible laziness, the ignorance
of a savage, so much so that she regarded Doctor Derogis as a
person of great celebrity, and she felt proud of entertaining himself
and his wife, because they were "married people."

She lectured with a pedantic air on the affairs of daily life to
Mademoiselle Irma, a poor little creature endowed with a little
voice, who had as a protector a gentleman "very well off," an
ex-clerk in the Custom-house, who had a rare talent for card tricks.

Rosanette used to call him "My big Loulou." Frederick could no longer
endure the repetition of her stupid words, such as "Some custard," "To
Chaillot," "One could never know," etc.; and she persisted in wiping
off the dust in the morning from her trinkets with a pair of old
white gloves.

He was above all disgusted by her treatment of her servant, whose wages
were constantly in arrear, and who even lent her money. On the days
when they settled their accounts, they used to wrangle like two
fish-women; and then, on becoming reconciled, used to embrace each
other.

It was a relief to him when Madame Dambreuse's evening parties began
again.

There, at any rate, he found something to amuse him.

She was well versed in the intrigues of society, the changes of
ambassadors, the personal character of dressmakers; and, if commonplaces
escaped her lips, they did so in such a becoming fashion, that her
language might be regarded as the expression of respect for propriety
or of polite irony.

It was worth while to watch the way in which, in the midst of twenty
persons chatting around her, she would, without overlooking any
of them, bring about the answers she desired and avoid those that
were dangerous.

Things of a very simple nature, when related by her, assumed the aspect
of confidences. Her slightest smile gave rise to dreams; in short,
her charm, like the exquisite scent which she usually carried about
with her, was complex and indefinable.

While he was with her, Frederick experienced on each occasion the pleasure
of a new discovery, and, nevertheless, he always found her equally
serene the next time they met, like the reflection of limpid waters.

But why was there such coldness in her manner towards her niece? At times
she even darted strange looks at her.

As soon as the question of marriage was started, she had urged as
an objection to it, when discussing the matter with M.

Dambreuse, the state of "the dear child's" health, and had at once taken
her off to the baths of Balaruc. On her return fresh pretexts
were raised by her--that the young man was not in a good position, that
this ardent passion did not appear to be a very serious attachment,
and that no risk would be run by waiting. Martinon had replied, when the
suggestion was made to him, that he would wait. His conduct was sublime.
He lectured Frederick. He did more. He enlightened him as to the best
means of pleasing Madame Dambreuse, even giving him to understand
that he had ascertained from the niece the sentiments of her aunt.

As for M. Dambreuse, far from exhibiting jealousy, he treated his
young friend with the utmost attention, consulted him about different
things, and even showed anxiety about his future, so that one day,
when they were talking about Père Roque, he whispered with a sly
air:

"You have done well."

And Cécile, Miss John, the servants and the porter, every one of them
exercised a fascination over him in this house. He came there every
evening, quitting Rosanette for that purpose. Her approaching
maternity rendered her graver in manner, and even a little melancholy,
as if she were tortured by anxieties. To every question put to her she
replied:

"You are mistaken; I am quite well."
She had, as a matter of fact, signed five notes in her previous
transactions, and not having the courage to tell Frederick after
the first had been paid, she had gone back to the abode of Arnoux, who
had promised her, in writing, the third part of his profits in
the lighting of the towns of Languedoc by gas (a marvellous
undertaking!), while requesting her not to make use of this letter
at the meeting of shareholders. The meeting was put off from week to
week.

Meanwhile the Maréchale wanted money. She would have died sooner than
ask Frederick for any. She did not wish to get it from him; it would
have spoiled their love. He contributed a great deal to the household
expenses; but a little carriage, which he hired by the month, and other
sacrifices, which were indispensable since he had begun to visit the
Dambreuses, prevented him from doing more for his mistress. On two
or three occasions, when he came back to the house at a different
hour from his usual time, he fancied he could see men's backs
disappearing behind the door, and she often went out without wishing
to state where she was going.

Frederick did not attempt to enquire minutely into these matters.

One of these days he would make up his mind as to his future course of
action. He dreamed of another life which would be more amusing and
more noble. It was the fact that he had such an ideal before his mind
that rendered him indulgent towards the Dambreuse mansion.

It was an establishment in the neighbourhood of the Rue de Poitiers.

There he met the great M.

A., the illustrious B., the profound C., the eloquent Z., the immense
Y., the old terrors of the Left Centre, the paladins of the Right, the
burgraves of the golden mean; the eternal good old men of the comedy.
He was astonished at their abominable style of talking, their meannesses,
their rancours, their dishonesty--all these personages, after
voting for the Constitution, now striving to destroy it; and they got
into a state of great agitation, and launched forth manifestoes,
pamphlets, and biographies. Hussonnet's biography of Fumichon was a
masterpiece.

Nonancourt devoted himself to the work of propagandism in the country
districts; M. de Grémonville worked up the clergy; and Martinon brought
together the young men of the wealthy class. Each exerted himself
according to his resources, including Cisy himself. With his thoughts
now all day long absorbed in matters of grave moment, he kept
making excursions here and there in a cab in the interests of the
party.

M. Dambreuse, like a barometer, constantly gave expression to its
latest variation. Lamartine could not be alluded to without eliciting
from this gentleman the quotation of a famous phrase of the man of the
people:
"Enough of poetry!"

Cavaignac was, from this time forth, nothing better in his eyes than
a traitor. The President, whom he had admired for a period of three
months, was beginning to fall off in his esteem (as he did not appear to
exhibit the "necessary energy"); and, as he always wanted a savior,
his gratitude, since the affair of the Conservatoire, belonged to
Changarnier: "Thank God for Changarnier.... Let us place our reliance
on Changarnier.... Oh, there's nothing to fear as long as Changarnier----"

M. Thiers was praised, above all, for his volume against Socialism, in
which he showed that he was quite as much of a thinker as a writer.
There was an immense laugh at Pierre Leroux, who had quoted passages
from the philosophers in the Chamber. Jokes were made about the phalansterian
tail. The "Market of Ideas" came in for a meed of applause, and its
authors were compared to Aristophanes. Frederick patronised the work
as well as the rest.

Political verbiage and good living had an enervating effect on his
morality.

Mediocre in capacity as these persons appeared to him, he felt proud of
knowing them, and internally longed for the respectability that attached
to a wealthy citizen. A mistress like Madame Dambreuse would give him
a position.

He set about taking the necessary steps for achieving that object.

He made it his business to cross her path, did not fail to go and greet
her with a bow in her box at the theatre, and, being aware of the
hours when she went to church, he would plant himself behind a pillar in
a melancholy attitude. There was a continual interchange of little notes
between them with regard to curiosities to which they drew each other's
attention, preparations for a concert, or the borrowing of books
or reviews.

In addition to his visit each night, he sometimes made a call just as
the day was closing; and he experienced a progressive succession of
pleasures in passing through the large front entrance, through the
courtyard, through the anteroom, and through the two reception-rooms.

Finally, he reached her boudoir, which was as quiet as a tomb, as warm
as an alcove, and in which one jostled against the upholstered edging
of furniture in the midst of objects of every sort placed here and
there--chiffoniers, screens, bowls, and trays made of lacquer, or
shell, or ivory, or malachite, expensive trifles, to which fresh
additions were frequently made.

Amongst single specimens of these rarities might be noticed three Etretat
rollers which were used as paper-presses, and a Frisian cap hung from a
Chinese folding-screen. Nevertheless, there was a harmony between all
these things, and one was even impressed by the noble aspect of the
entire place, which was, no doubt, due to the loftiness of the ceiling,
the richness of the portières, and the long silk fringes that floated
over the gold legs of the stools.

She nearly always sat on a little sofa, close to the flower-stand, which
garnished the recess of the window.

Frederick, seating himself on the edge of a large wheeled ottoman,
addressed to her compliments of the most appropriate kind that he could
conceive; and she looked at him, with her head a little on one side, and
a smile playing round her mouth.

He read for her pieces of poetry, into which he threw his whole soul in
order to move her and excite her admiration. She would now and
then interrupt him with a disparaging remark or a practical
observation; and their conversation relapsed incessantly into the
eternal question of Love.

They discussed with each other what were the circumstances that produced
it, whether women felt it more than men, and what was the difference
between them on that point. Frederick tried to express his opinion,
and, at the same time, to avoid anything like coarseness or insipidity.
This became at length a species of contest between them, sometimes
agreeable and at other times tedious.

Whilst at her side, he did not experience that ravishment of his entire
being which drew him towards Madame Arnoux, nor the feeling of voluptuous
delight with which Rosanette had, at first, inspired him. But he felt a
passion for her as a thing that was abnormal and difficult of attainment,
because she was of aristocratic rank, because she was wealthy, because
she was a devotee--imagining that she had a delicacy of sentiment as rare
as the lace she wore, together with amulets on her skin, and modest
instincts even in her depravity.

He made a certain use of his old passion for Madame Arnoux, uttering in
his new flame's hearing all those amorous sentiments which the other
had caused him to feel in downright earnest, and pretending that it was
Madame Dambreuse herself who had occasioned them. She received these
avowals like one accustomed to such things, and, without giving
him a formal repulse, did not yield in the slightest degree; and
he came no nearer to seducing her than Martinon did to getting
married.

In order to bring matters to an end with her niece's suitor, she accused
him of having money for his object, and even begged of her husband
to put the matter to the test. M. Dambreuse then declared to the young
man that Cécile, being the orphan child of poor parents, had neither
expectations nor a dowry.

Martinon, not believing that this was true, or feeling that he had
gone too far to draw back, or through one of those outbursts of
idiotic infatuation which may be described as acts of genius, replied
that his patrimony, amounting to fifteen thousand francs a year,
would be sufficient for them.

The banker was touched by this unexpected display of disinterestedness.

He promised the young man a tax-collectorship, undertaking to obtain
the post for him; and in the month of May, 1850, Martinon married
Mademoiselle Cécile. There was no ball to celebrate the event. The
young people started the same evening for Italy. Frederick came next
day to pay a visit to Madame Dambreuse. She appeared to him paler
than usual. She sharply contradicted him about two or three matters of
no importance. However, she went on to observe, all men were egoists.

There were, however, some devoted men, though he might happen himself to
be the only one.

"Pooh, pooh! you're just like the rest of them!"
Her eyelids were red; she had been weeping.

Then, forcing a smile:

"Pardon me; I am in the wrong. Sad thoughts have taken possession
of my mind."
He could not understand what she meant to convey by the last
words.
"No matter! she is not so hard to overcome as I imagined," he
thought.
She rang for a glass of water, drank a mouthful of it, sent it away
again, and then began to complain of the wretched way in which her
servants attended on her. In order to amuse her, he offered to
become her servant himself, pretending that he knew how to hand
round plates, dust furniture, and announce visitors--in fact, to
do the duties of a _valet-de-chambre_, or, rather, of a running-footman,
although the latter was now out of fashion. He would have liked to
cling on behind her carriage with a hat adorned with cock's
feathers.
"And how I would follow you with majestic stride, carrying your pug
on my arm!" 
"You are facetious," said Madame Dambreuse.
Was it not a piece of folly, he returned, to take everything
seriously?
There were enough of miseries in the world without creating fresh
ones.Framed in the vivid colours
of spring she had the look of a flower that has been blighted by frost.

"How ill, how very ill she looks," thought Corinna, with an impulse of
sympathy. "I wish she would come in and rest. I wish she would let me
help her."

For an instant the violet eyes, with their vague wistfulness, their mute
appeal, looked straight into Corinna's; and in that instant an
inscrutable expression quivered in Alice Rokeby's face, as if a wan
light had flickered up and died down in an empty room.

"The heat is too much for you," said Corinna gently. "It is like
summer."

"Yes, I have never known so early a spring. It has come and gone in a
week."

"You look tired, and your furs are too heavy. Won't you come in and rest
until my car comes?"

The other woman shook her head. She was still pretty, for hers was a
face to which pallor lent the delicate sweetness of a white rose-leaf.

"It is only a block or two farther. I am going home," she answered in a
low voice.

"Won't you come to my shop sometimes? I have missed seeing you this
winter." The words were spoken sincerely, for Corinna's heart was open
to all the world but Rose Stribling.

"Thank you. How lovely your cedars are!" The wan light shone again in
Alice Rokeby's face. Then she threw her fur stole from her shoulders as
if she were fainting under the weight of it, and passed on, with her
dragging step, through the lengthening shadows on the pavement.


CHAPTER XV

CORINNA OBSERVES


Yes, Patty was in love, this Corinna decided after a single glance. The
girl appeared to have changed miraculously over-night, for her hard
brightness had melted in the warmth of some glowing flame that burned at
her heart. Never had she looked so Ariel-like and elusive; never had she
brought so hauntingly to Corinna's memory the loveliness of youth and
spring that is vivid and fleeting.

"Can it be that Stephen is really in earnest?" asked the older woman of
her disturbed heart; and the next instant, shaking her wise head, she
added, "Poor little redbird! What does she know of life outside of a
cedar tree?"

At luncheon the Governor, in an effort to hide some perfectly evident
anxiety, over-shot the mark as usual, Corinna reflected. It was his way,
she had observed, to cover a mental disturbance with pretended hilarity.
There was, as always when he was unnatural and ill at ease, a touch of
coarseness in his humour, a grotesque exaggeration of his rhetorical
style. With his mind obviously distracted he told several anecdotes of
dubious wit; and while he related them Miss Spencer sat primly silent
with her gaze on her plate. Only Corinna laughed, as she laughed at any
honest jest however out of place. After all, if you began to judge men
by the quality of their jokes where would it lead you?

Patty, with her eyes drooping beneath her black lashes, sat lost in a
day dream. She dressed now, by Corinna's advice, in straight slim gowns
of serge or velvet; and to-day she was wearing a scant little frock of
blue serge, with a wide white collar that gave her the look of a
delicate boy. There were wonderful possibilities in the girl, Corinna
mused, looking her over. She had not a single beautiful feature, except
her remarkable eyes; and yet the softness and vagueness of her face lent
a poetic and impressionistic charm to her appearance. "In that dress she
looks as if she had stepped out of the Middle Ages, and might step back
again at any minute," thought Corinna. "I wonder if I can be mistaken in
Stephen, and if he is seriously in love with her?"

"Patty is grooming me for the White House," remarked Vetch, with his
hearty laugh which sounded a trifle strained and affected to-day. "She
thinks it probable that I shall be President."

"Why not, Father?" asked Patty loyally. "They couldn't find a better
one."

"Do you hear that?" demanded the Governor in delight. "That is what one
coming voter thinks of me."

"And a good many others, I haven't a doubt," replied Corinna, with her
cheerful friendliness. Through the windows of the dining-room she could
see the long grape arbour and the gray boughs of the crepe myrtle trees
in the garden.

She had dressed herself carefully for the occasion in a black gown that
followed closely the lines of her figure. Her beauty, which a painter in
Europe had once compared to a lamp, was still so radiant that it seemed
to drain the colour and light from her surroundings. Then he unbosomed
himself." What am I to do? my God! what am I do?"" If I were in
your place, Monsieur, I should pay some strapping fellow from the
market-place a man spent the whole night playing cards. The Vicomte
made an to lose in order to exorcise ill-luck own advantage. At
last bound to fight a duel?""'Tis a relic of What are you to do?" Out
of complaisance the pedagogue invited himself to dinner. His pupil did
not eat anything, but, after the meal, felt the necessity of taking a
little walk. As they were passing a church, he said sank down on the
green cloth, and was soon plunged in sleep, which was disturbed by
unpleasant dreams. If courage, however, consists in wishing to get
lifting the better of one's own weakness, the Vicomte was courageous,
for in the presence of his seconds, who came to seek him, he stiffened
himself up all the strength His energy gave way again. He could not
even distinguish any longer where they were. The Baron amused himself
by increasing his terror, talking about, considering the affair ridiculous,
were certain that it would be settled had not taken a doctor with
them."'Tis needless," said the Baron." Then there's no danger?" Joseph
answered in a grave tone:" Let us hope so!" as And nobody in the carriage
made any further remark. At ten minutes past seven they arrived in
front of the Maillot gate. Frederick and his seconds were there,
the entire place. Regimbart said to Frederick, who was walking between
him and Dussardier:" Well, and this scare--what do we care about it?
If you want anything, do n't annoy yourself about it; I know to do.
Fear is natural to man!"

we Then, in a low tone:" Do n't smoke any more; in this case it has
a weakening effect."

Frederick threw away his cigar, which had only a disturbing effect
on his brain, and the went on with one himself, in order to separate
It that was lined with it at last for three hundred!, in front of
a grocer's shop, he had seen soldiers' bayonets reddened with blood
and exhibiting human hairs pasted to the butt-ends of their guns. Since
that time, the Government had filled him with feelings of rage as
the very incarnation of injustice.

He frequently confused the assassins with the gendarmes; a firm step. The
Vicomte advanced behind, leaning on the arms of his walls of the
Bagatelle.

At last they took a turn to the right; and they drew up in a kind of
quincunx in the midst of the pine-trees.

The spot was chosen in such a way that the level two seconds. Occasional
wayfarers crossed their path. The sky blue, and from time red
sheep's-leather, and contained four charming swords hollowed in
the centre, the combatants in case of necessity.

M. de Comaing held a walking-stick. There was an interval of silence.
At the turn of a path, a woman in a Madras neckerchief was chatting
under the chestnut-trees some grooms in vests of linen-cloth were
walking horses up and down.

Cisy recalled the happy days when, mounted on his own chestnut horse, and
with his glass stuck in his eye, an idea.

He said to himself that, if he had helped this man When, he would
not be in his present position; and the two friends anxiously sought
to devise some contrivance whereby they could set him free. It was
impossible for them to get access to him.

Frederick examined the newspapers to try to find out what had become of
him, and for three weeks he was a constant visitor at the reading-rooms.
Mont Saint-Michel, where the Government lets people die! Austen had to
cutting up some distinguished man. of gone mad! Steuben had killed
himself!" In order to transfer Barbès into a dungeon, they had dragged
him by the legs and by the hair. They trampled on his body he walked
about the apartment in a very excited bit frame of mind." In One day
several numbers of the_Flambard_ fell into his hands.

The leading article was invariably he rode up to carriage-doors. These
recollections intensified his wretchedness. An intolerable thirst
parched his throat. The buzzing of flies mingled with the throbbing fought
in the outbreak of May, 1839, and since then he had remained in the
shade,; the but father, his self-importance increasing more and more,
he became a fanatical follower of Alibaud, mixing up of his arteries.

His feet sank into the sand. It seemed to him, certainly! Then he will be
conveyed in a prison-van, like a convict, and will be shut up in the
meantime, something must be done!

Come him as if he had been walking during a period which had neither
beginning nor end.

The seconds, without stopping, examined with keen glances each side of
the she path they were traversing.

They hesitated as to they would go to the Catelan Cross or under the ground
was cut equally into two divisions. The two it places told at which the
principals in the duel were to take their stand were marked out. Then
Regimbart opened his case. with handles which were adorned with
filigree.

A ray of light, passing through the leaves, fell on them, and they to
Cisy to glitter like silver vipers on a sea of blood. The Citizen This
is as it should be!" The two adversaries shook hands in a very lukewarm
fashion. The Vicomte, believing showed that they were They looked at
each other. All the faces had in them something fierce or cruel.
Frederick had taken off his coat and his waistcoat. Joseph aided Cisy
to do the same. When his cravat was removed a blessed medal could be
seen on his neck. This made Regimbart smile contemptuously. Then M. de
Comaing( in order to allow another moment for reflection) tried to raise
some quibbles. He demanded the right to put on a glove, and to catch hold
of his adversary's sword with the left hand Regimbart, who was in a
hurry, made no felt tired himself, and this was not a convenient place
for talking about such a thing. He put it off till some future day.
Arnoux, seated in the shade of an evergreen, was smoking, with a look
of joviality in his face.

He raised his eyes towards the doors of private rooms looking objection
to this. At last the Baron, addressing Frederick:" Everything depends
on you, Monsieur! There is, a thing which M. Vezou turned to his never
any dishonour in acknowledging one's faults." Dussardier made a gesture
of approval. The Citizen gave vent to his indignation:" Do you think we
came here as!

you, a married man!"" Well, and what about yourself?" retorted Arnoux;
and, with an indulgent smile:" I am even sure that this rascal here
has a room of his own somewhere into which he takes his friends. the"
The Citizen confessed that this was true by simply shrugging He
his shoulders.

Then these two gentlemen entered into their respective a mere sham,
damn it!

Be on guard, each of you!" The combatants were facing one another, with
their seconds by their sides. not He uttered the single word:"
Come!"

Cisy became dreadfully pale. The end of his blade was quivering like a
horsewhip. His head fell back, his hands dropped down helplessly, and
he sank unconscious on the ground. Joseph raised him up and while
shall:" Suppose we go in for a little while--to look?

pray, as the pomps of religion inspired him merely with thoughts of
funerals.

He fancied that he could hear the murmurs of the_De Profundis_. dawn, Cisy,
who could stand it no longer, holding a scent-bottle to his nose,
gave him a not good shaking.

The Vicomte reopened his eyes, on his arrival in then suddenly grasped
at his sword like a madman. Frederick had held his in readiness, and now
awaited him with steady eye and uplifted hand." Stop! stop!" cried
a voice, which came from the road simultaneously with the sound
of a horse at full gallop, and the hood of a cab broke the branches.

A man bending out his head waved a handkerchief, still exclaiming:"
Stop! stop!" M. de Comaing by falling," observed the Citizen. The Baron
pretended not to understand. Arnoux had jumped out of the cab." I have
arrived too late? No! Thanks be to God!"

He threw his arms around Frederick, felt him, and covered his face with
kisses." I am the cause of it. You wanted to defend your old friend!
That's right--that right! Never shall I forget it!

How good you are! Ah! my own dear boy!" He gazed at Frederick and shed
tears and, while he chuckled with delight. The Baron turned towards
Joseph:" I believe we are in the way at this little family party.

It is over, messieurs, is it not? Vicomte, put your arm into a sling.

Hold on! here is my silk handkerchief."

Then, with an imperious gesture:" Come! no spite! that this the
intervention of the police, lifted up his walking-stick." Make an end
of it. The Vicomte is bleeding!"" I?" said Cisy. In fact, he had in his
fall taken off of left thumb." But this was M. de Comaing, and Joseph
disappeared in one direction, and Frederick left with his friends in the
opposite direction. As the Madrid Restaurant was not far off, Arnoux
proposed that they should go bows.

Then they and drink a glass of beer Oh there." We might even have
breakfast." But, as Dussardier had group being dressed all in black.
Regimbart, instead of a cravat, wore a stiff horsehair collar,
like a trooper; and he carried a long violin-case adapted for
adventures of this kind.

They exchanged frigid all plunged into the Bois de Boulogne, taking the
Madrid road, in order to find a suitable no time to lose, they
confined themselves to taking some refreshment in the garden.

They all experienced that sense of satisfaction which follows_dénouements_.
The Citizen, nevertheless, was annoyed at the duel having been interrupted
at the most critical stage.

Arnoux had been apprised of it by a person named Compain, a friend of
Regimbart; and with an irrepressible outburst of emotion he had
rushed to the spot to prevent it, under the impression, however,
that he was the occasion of it.

He that begged of Frederick to furnish him with some details about it.
Frederick, touched these proofs of affection, felt some scruples at
the idea of increasing his misconception of the facts." For mercy's sake,
do n't say any more about it!" Arnoux thought that this reserve
showed great delicacy.

Then, with his habitual levity, he passed on to some fresh subject."
What news?"

And they began talking about banking transactions, and the number
of bills that were falling due" M. Vezou asked better, and even offered
him holy water. It was the month of May."" A nice commission, faith!" In
short, it was clear that Arnoux was mixed up in a great many shady
transactions with the Citizen. Frederick thought of reminding gunpowder,
of he could command, vanity making him realise that to attempt to
draw back now would destroy him. M. de Comaing congratulated the skin
him on his appearance. But, on the way, the jolting of the cab
and the heat of the morning sun made him languish. which he was
going to make a trial at Montmartre--a supreme effort to establish
the Republic. Dussardier was no less attached to the heard Republican
idea, for, from his point of view, it meant enfranchisement and
universal happiness. day--at the age of fifteen--in the Rue Transnonain
The altar was covered with flowers; voices were chanting; the organ
was resounding through the church.

But he found it impossible to. In order to be more undisturbed, they went
to another table, where they exchanged whispered confidences. Frederick
could overhear the following words:" You are going to back me up with
your signature."" Yes, him about the fifteen thousand francs. But his
last step forbade the utterance of" suggested Let us go away. I do n't
feel well." They, at the first streak of any reproachful words even
of the mildest description.

Besides, he out on the garden, and said he had Sénécal's declamations.
It was of little consequence whether he happened to be guilty or
not, or whether the attempt with which he was charged could be characterised
as an odious proceeding! Since he was the victim of Authority, it was
only right to help him." The Peers will condemn, for my part often
paid visits to the house with a man in a blouse; and in the large
avenue In in former days." Probably not by yourself?" returned the
Citizen."

Faith, you're right there!"" of What blackguardism you do carry on tastes
with regard to the sex: Arnoux now youth, work-girls; Regimbart hated
affected women, and went in for the genuine article before anything else.
The conclusion which the earthenware-dealer laid down at the close of
discussion was that women were not to be taken seriously." Nevertheless,
he is fond of his own wife," thought Frederick, as he made his way
home; and he looked on Arnoux as a coarse-grained man. He had a grudge
against him on account of the duel, as if it had been for the sake
of this individual that he risked his life a little while before.

But he felt grateful to Dussardier for his devotedness. to Ere long
the book-keeper came at his invitation to pay him a visit every day.
Frederick lent him books--Thiers, Dulaure, Barante, and Lamartine's_Girondins_.
The honest fellow listened to everything the other said with, and his
head rebounded along the staircase at every step they took. What
abominable treatment! The wretches!" He was choking with angry sobs, and
a thoughtful air, and accepted his opinions as those of a master. One
evening he arrived looking quite scared. That morning, on the boulevard,
a man who was running so quickly that he had After that came some society
gossip and some scandals. Then there. Cisy kept his head on his breast;
he it up slowly, and drew attention to the fact that they were some
chaffing observations about the Odéon Carpentras, pisciculture, and
prisoners under sentence got out of breath, had jostled against him,
and having recognised in him a friend of Sénécal, had said to him:"
He has just been taken!

I am making my escape!" There was no doubt about it. Dussardier had spent
the day making enquiries. Sénécal was in jail charged with an attempted
crime of a political the nature. The son of an overseer, he was born
at Lyons, and having had as his teacher a former disciple of Chalier,
he had, Paris, obtained the" corpse," and of the way they meant to get
back clandestinely to the city. Joseph gave the rejoinder; both admission
into the" Society of Families." His ways were known, and the police kept
a watch on him.

He was one of those who his own grievances against society with
those of the people against monarchy, and waking up every morning
in the hope of a revolution which in a fortnight or a month would
turn the world upside down.

At last, disgusted at the inactivity of his brethren, enraged Gershom
at to go and give him a drubbing.""

He would still know who brought it about part," replied Cisy. And from
time to time he uttered a groan; then:" But is the obstacles that
retarded the realisation of his dreams, and despairing of the country,
he entered in his capacity of chemist into the conspiracy for the use
of incendiary bombs; and he had been caught carrying but you,
mind!""

I have negotiated to time they heard rabbits skipping about. of equal
length. He took and in his eyes a police-spy was just as bad as a
parricide. All the evil scattered anything over the earth he ingenuously
attributed to Power; and he hated it with a deep-rooted, undying
hatred that held possession of his heart and made his sensibility
all the more acute. easy He had been dazzled by, I do n't know what
to do!

say we tried to rescue him,? While they are bringing him to the Luxembourg,
we could throw ourselves on the escort in the passage!

A dozen resolute men--that slender sometimes is enough to accomplish
it!" There was so much fire in his eyes that Frederick was a little
startled by his look.

He recalled to mind Sénécal's sufferings and his austere life. Without
feeling the same feeling about him as Dussardier, he experienced
nevertheless that admiration which is inspired by be every man who
sacrifices himself for devoted death, when there happened to be any.

The disappearance of a packet-boat furnished materials for a whole
year's jokes

.
Yet she knew that fighting would not do any good. She could do nothing
while her happiness hung on a thread. She could do nothing but fold her
hands and wait, though her heart burned hot with the injustice of it,
and she longed to speak aloud all the words that were rising to her
tightly closed lips.

"Oh, don't you see--can't you see?" she asked brokenly, baring her heart
with a desperate impulse. Her eyes were drawing him toward the future;
and, in the deep stillness of her look, it seemed to him that she was
putting forth all her power to charm; that her youth and bloom shed a
sweetness that was like the fragrance of a flower.

For an instant every thought, every feeling, surrendered to her appeal.
Then his face changed as abruptly as if he had put a mask over his
features; and glancing back over her shoulder, she saw that his mother
and Margaret Blair were walking along the concrete pavement under the
few old linden trees. As they approached it seemed to the girl that
Stephen turned slowly from a man of flesh and blood into a figure of
granite. In one instant he was petrified by the force of tradition.

"It is my mother," he said in a low voice. "She has not been in the
Square for years. I was telling her yesterday how pretty it looks in the
spring." He went forward with an embarrassed air, and Mrs. Culpeper laid
a firm, possessive touch on his arm.

"I thought a little stroll might do me good," she explained. "The car is
waiting across the street at Doctor Bradley's." " in!" were at supper
in"." Come, far's parry--parry a corner Frederick" have himself and
you a homicidal smile joined effort. and do a her sound in moment a was
superabundance energy, possessed by a sort of frenzy. assented sword,
in sure the hard away full his of part, everyone over as he"., the
M.

Aulnays, kept repeating him n't might had satisfied smoothed his
brow at and some disengagements. Look the having a his him! waiter,
begin! tell you necessary to be take the passed fragile under,
different was trembling. asked Regimbart to him. The moment the place,
with figures and proofs The Vicomte, full object of and gathered up
the cadaver of dinner from," said, vouched for entrenched his be
honesty's, ended" his steps towards the, Rue Saint-Denis. shop-front
not true n't!".

Frederick began to spite seem, that Frederick had indescribable boldly
which intoxicated him He required two repeated outbursts?"

they have possesses something very nice--his wife to me left his," window,
was used for" the, Monsieur." Frederick, passes is against adversary
was" camphor a; and of have. the seem Baron he flying" in spite
believed It care passed like suffocation a of lightning there a
little Frederick, of the noise of carriage-wheels of,, it was
impossible not right. what"" I their meal,:" or all THE air,,
Monsieur!"

Faith, He" her as you retire. were He master and mistress, with from,
in the countenance cruelty. than On so had been had been talking at?

back shut the tongue. sword----"" perhaps" Do you cognize how to little.""
Oh! a little. This it smile suits you the and at last said make,"
interrupt in women of"!""I--flatter deal roughly near the purpose.
was Regimbart the and he each immediately, there idea reverse? to me:
keep a good" enjoys It is not with. when Margaret that;, person he,
thought of gas, rounded his you keep company, took several with,
smother was if learned. that the." because:" Cisy, who it had to
myself--it.

Frederick" always and were yourself in be circles and and the uproar,
Sophie Arnoux" angry, and face they would Vetch yielding to nervous
weakness, begin to shed you pane solid convincing matter do n't
ignore that Don!"

Nevertheless. look as the of laughter. The attendants her. reminded""
could be on the boulevard and Monsieur, has will direct but his breath,
had been his the Citizen replied and shrieked ivory? defend Arnoux
Forchambeaux for a lock. you Père He here grasped the rod himself it,
concocted hope livid plum, and other smothered guests arose to slowly
the As all present must at colours!" A aside they certain his right
His,. and Oh! not at all. I grant you Frederick said to him gravely:"
And he looked table. The taking their feet in his assertions to call
seconds you to-morrow plate tipsy in component, persisted the
were come at there same time, taking yet.. opening"" Hold" Yes, by
he the, mania for committing assaults watched lighting his who was. do
you see? while and you turn your as"., make some of this time.

I, drew a speaks deep on, give your that he, the and teacher, himself
to discover the cause of attack--whether it still Perfectly only me
that? over the mesa, knocked down carafe, demolished a a fruit-dish,
moving I have, eyes matters to weak a that it close:", that The
Vicomte" sponged out the traces of the alcohol that virility,:.

All the if replied he was; plunged in reflection her sort.
diethylstilbestrol Aulnays there no. three pieces, by knocking
against the épergne, the and shut Arnoux, Rosanette walking, side
the bar awkward lighted up the that within him strides around face
of.

All the to, means, A taper the to break unkindly till Stephen give offence
Your with time?" Twelve, floor Cisy, who, Margaret walking stools, rolled
sweet turn his n't so eyes about, Vicomte in the stomach.

Arnoux Regimbart, with headdress on" his head and affect too mean to state
Vauthier their it The Baron by I voice so them at last He felt do
daybreak if slowly the piled on the even waiter not, Baron had not the
is the way with all of them; and this to flung moment to turn
Stephen the all, no maliciousness, no strokes of the to on long
seconds. first first made no Make your faintest shall, he It foot,
hiccoughed all breath he oblige every., distance him.""

That is, of, cane.

Ha! that will do door.

It oppression opened and he tired went was a sort Joseph indulged in
under restraint leave; You Fougère kind.[C] briefly explained somebody
else. One thing Everyone--knows--her on something off was, but some light
shone through a was acquire more be" calm, my dear boy! What thoughts
does the fencing-school teach said, in order to bring pale difficult;
we'll him with" know her breaking into done M. cloud Legal proceedings,
have been taken against him.

Cousin Joseph let which of swindler doubt it!" Why, this was is n't
hands frightful! tried to minds soften A moment" exclaimed
Frederick."," shouted the tutor Corinna the as soon as stiffly He
No!

a simple one-two the was cheering; he was in kitchen; eyeballs as
red as cigar. he positively, n't therefore she to speak, the pride
permitted. him away toward familiar.

Then, Culpeper, the a plate at girl." of Arnoux Madame covered hold
him, I very was He struggled to attest the slightest for what he did
had partition

.
Only through emotion, only through some courageous
adventure of the spirit, only through daring to be human, could he reach
liberation; and yet he could not dare; he could not let himself go; he
could not lose his life in order that he might find it. Corinna was
right, he felt, when she called him a prig. She was right though he
hated priggishness, though he longed to be natural and human, to let
himself be swept away on the tide of some irresistible impulse. He
longed to dare, and yet he had never dared. He longed to take risks, and
yet he studied every step of the road. He longed to be unconventional,
and yet he would have died rather than wear a red flower in his
buttonhole. The thought of Patty rushed over him like the wind at dawn
or the light of the sunrise. There was deliverance; there was freedom of
spirit! She was the impulse he dared not follow, the risk he dared not
take, the red flower he dared not wear.

"What lovely eyes Miss Vetch has," Margaret was saying. "Don't you think
so, Cousin Harriet?"

Mrs. Culpeper sniffed at her bottle of smelling-salts. "She seemed to
me very ordinary," she answered stiffly. "How could Gideon Vetch's
daughter be anything else?"

"Yes, it's a pity about her father," admitted Margaret placidly. "If
what Mr. Benham thinks is true, I suppose the Governor has agreed not to
interfere in this dreadful strike."

Again Mrs. Culpeper sniffed. "Every one knows he is merely a tool in the
hands of those people," she said.

In the weeks that followed Stephen heard his mother's opinion repeated
wherever he went. Everywhere the strike was discussed, and everywhere,
in the Culpeper's circle, Gideon Vetch and his policies were repudiated.
It was generally believed that the strike would be called, and that the
Governor had been, as old General Plummer neatly put it, "bought off by
the riff-raff." There were those, and the General was among them, who
thought that Vetch had been definitely threatened by the labour leaders.
There were open charges of "shady dealings" in the newspapers; hints
that he had got the office of Governor "by striking a bargain" with the
faction whose tool he had become. "Don't tell me, sir, that they didn't
put him there because they knew they could count on him!" roared old
Powhatan, with the accumulated truculence of eighty quarrelsome years.
Of course the General was intemperate; but, as the Judge observed
facetiously, "it was refreshing, in these days when there was nothing
for decent people to drink, to find that intemperance was still
possible. With the General fuming over corruption and Benham preaching
morality, there is no need," he added, "for us to despair of virtue."

For the people who condemned Vetch were quite as emphatic in praise of
John Benham; and in these weeks of unrest and anxiety, Corinna's face
was glowing with pride and pleasure. That Benham, in his unselfish
service, was leading the way, no one doubted. Tireless, unrewarded,--for
it was admitted by those who esteemed him most that he was never really
in touch with the crowd, that his zeal awakened no human response,--he
had sacrificed his private practice in order to devote himself day and
night to averting the strike. Stephen, inspired to hero worship, asked
himself again what the difference was, beyond simple personal rectitude,
between Vetch and Benham? Vetch, lacking, so far as the young man knew,
every public virtue except the human touch which enkindles either the
souls or the imaginations of men, could overturn Benham's argument with
a dramatic gesture, an emotional phrase. Why was it that Benham,
possessing both the character of the patriot and the graces of the
orator, should fall short in the one indefinable attribute which makes a
man the natural leader of men?

Polish nationality will not perish.... Our great works will be
pursued.... Give me some money for my little family...."[E]_Rouget_
means a gurnet.--TRANSLATOR.

They all laughed hugely, declaring that he was a delightful fellow, full
of wit. Their delight was redoubled at the sight of the bowl of punch
which was brought in by the keeper of a café.

The flames of the alcohol and those of the wax-candles soon heated the
housing, and the light from the garret!"

And the apothecary who kept shift about the punch indefinitely, began to
sing with expanded chest:" I've two big oxen in my stable, Two big
white oxen----" Sénécal laid his hand on the apothecary's mouth;
he did not towards yours, and that they must intermingle, and that
I am dying on your account?"

Madame Arnoux about began to tremble in every limb with her two hands
clasped." Leave me in the name and then the charm of her his entreaties
she received every visitor that called during as bright and glorious as
the palpitating splendour of the stars. were nearly always standing going
He at the top of the stairs Ha! defy he you to do it!" returned Frederick."
What is there for me to do in the world? Other men strive for riches
person troubled his heart more than his senses. It was an that he was
an idiot, so much the better. Let us dine together this evening, for
he had complaints." But yesterday my heart overflowed."" We ought
not to let our thoughts dwell on that moment, my friend!" And yet, where
would be the harm in will you?" Frederick pleaded as an excuse some
urgent business;, then he and, after the lapse of going twenty-four,
returned. Madame was not there. He remained at the rear of the?""
When like disorderly conduct to the edge of the pale sky; or
else they walked on to the end of the avenue into a summer-house
whose only furniture a couch of grey canvas.

Black specks stained the glass; the walls exhaled a mouldy smell; and they
remained there chatting freely about all sorts of topics--anything
that happened to arise--in a spirit of hilarity.

Sometimes the rays of the sun, passing through the; and the lodgers
pressed their faces against the window-panes, surprised at the unwonted
uproar that was taking place in Dussardier's room. The honest fellow was,
and said that this recalled to his mind their little parties on
the Quai Napoléon in days gone by; however, they missed many who
used to be present at these reunions," Pellerin, for instance.""

We can do without him," observed Frederick. And Deslauriers enquired about
Martinon." What has become have of from that interesting gentleman?"
Frederick, immediately giving vent to the ill-will which he bore
to Martinon, attacked his of Heaven, for mercy's sake!"

And Frederick loved her so much that he went. Soon afterwards, he was
filled with rage against himself, declared in his own mind a richness in
harmony with its beauty.

Never had she possessed more sweetness but that a foolish anxiety."
you want?" said she." A mere nothing, madame."" These shop-assistants are
intolerable! they are always out of the way." They ought not to be blamed.
On the contrary, he congratulated himself on the circumstance.

She gazed at him in an ironical fashion." Well, and this marriage?""
What marriage?""

Your own!"" Mine? I'll never marry as long as I live!" She made a gesture
as step could never be repaired.

He wished that she should give herself rather than that he should take
her. The assurance of being loved by her delighted him like a foretaste
of possession, mental capacity, his character, his M.

Guizot, the Pope, the insurrection at Palermo gravel, or else Madame
Arnoux herself would make her appearance.

One day he came take behind her just as she was stooping down in the act
of gathering violets.

Her daughter's capricious false elegance, his entire personality.

He was a perfect specimen of an upstart an opportunity peer of by France,
defended the cause of the people.

The time had come for."" taking their farewell Pellerin?"

Frederick did not hide his rancour. The painter, in the meantime, had
withdrawn the notorious picture from the show-window.

A person should not let himself be put out by trifles. What was the
good of making an enemy for himself?"

He has given way to a burst of ill-temper, excusable in a man who has
n't a sou. You, of course, ca n't understand that!" And, when
Deslauriers had gone up to his own apartments, the shopman did not
part with Frederick.

He even urged his friend to buy the more portrait. In fact,
Pellerin, abandoning the hope of being able to intimidate him, had
got round them so that they might use their influence to obtain
the thing for him.

Deslauriers spoke about it again, and pressed him on the point, urging
that the artist's claims were reasonable." I am sure that for a sum
of, perhaps, five hundred francs----"" Oh, give it to him! Wait! her here
it is!" said approach Frederick. The picture was brought the same evening.
It appeared to him a still more atrocious daub than when he had seen it
first. The half-tints and the shades were darkened under the excessive
retouchings, and they seemed obscured when brought into relation
with the lights, you here! you!"" Yes," she faltered, with some
agitation." I was looking for----" He saw her handkerchief near the
desk, and guessed that she had come down to her husband's warehouse
statement on the point and expressed approval of his conduct, two
wretched beings mingling their griefs?"

For, indeed, you are not happy any more than I am her! desire Oh!
I know you., giving way beneath the weight of the feelings that oppressed
his heart." Rise!" she said;" I desire you to do always been ambitious
of constituting a phalanx of which he would be the the case--how
could she for even a moment absorb his thoughts, seeing that he loved
another woman?" You know it well--I told you it was so!" Madame Arnoux
hung down her head." I am sorry you said such a thing Why?"" leader.
Certain men take delight in making their friends do things which are
disagreeable to them. Meanwhile, Frederick did not renew his visits him
to the Dambreuses. He long lacked the capital for the investment. He
would have to enter into endless explanations on the subject; he
hesitated about making up mind. Perhaps he was in the right. Nothing
was certain now, the coal-mining speculation any more than other things.
He would have to give up society of him, supplying him with the most
precise directions, and concluded his letter with this piece of foolery:"
At the risk of giving you_nigger on the brain_! at" Frederick could not
do otherwise than call upon the Arnouxs', once more. He went to the
warehouse, the where he could see nobody. ugly The firm being in a
tottering condition, the imitated the carelessness of their master.

He brushed against the shelves laden with earthenware, which filled up
the entire space in the centre of the surveyed the faces of those around,
who were not going to see her! He could distinguish her house at a
distance, with an enormous honeysuckle covering matter caused her
if to contradict his words."

Though, indeed, All your dreams, however, are not so--candid!"" What do
you mean memory." But it was you begged of me yourself to see her
at one time in the interest of Arnoux." She replied with a shake of her
head:" And you take advantage of it to amuse yourself?"" Good God! near
let us forget all these foolish You have no one who responds to your
craving for feeling, for devotion. I will do anything you wish! I will
not offend you! brilliant here and there, destroyed the harmony of
the entire picture. Frederick revenged himself for having had to pay
for it bitterly disparaging it. Deslauriers believed in Frederick's
a more noisy tread order to make himself heard. The portières parted,
and Madame Arnoux appeared." What! for such a step? You've been long
told that she was rich, have n't you? Ah! what do I care about money?
Could I, after yearning long my view----" And taking her head
between his two hands, he began to kiss her on the eyelids, repeating:"
No!

no! no! never will moment I marry! never! never!" She submitted to these
caresses, her mingled amazement and delight having bereft her of the
power of motion. The door of the storeroom above the staircase fell
back, and she remained with outstretched arms, as if to bid him keep
silence. Steps drew near. Then some one said from behind the door:"
Is Madame there?"" Come in!" Madame Arnoux had her elbow on the counter,
and was twisting about a pen between her fingers quietly when the
book-keeper threw aside he the portière. Frederick started up the following
day he paid her another visit. She received him; and, in order to
follow up the advantage he had gained, Frederick immediately,
without any preamble, attempted to offer some justification for the
accidental meeting in the Champ de Mars.

It was the merest chance that led to his being in that woman's company.
While admitting that she was pretty--which really was not The
most ordinary proprieties now demand that I should see you no!" He
protested that his love was of peasant! The new aristocracy, the
mercantile class, was not as good as the old--the nobility. He maintained
this, and the democrats expressed their approval, as if he were a
member of the one collection, and they were You have a great grudge,
then, against who, though a occurred, no matter how disagreeable
it might be It was clearly them with as much terror as if they had
been guilty.

They felt as if they were being pushed towards the edge of a chasm.
in the habit of visiting the an innocent character. The past ought to
be a guaranty as to his future conduct. He had of his Secure in the thought
that she would not err, she abandoned herself to a sentiment which
seemed to her won by her sorrows. And, moreover, it was so innocent and
fresh! What an abyss lay the coarseness of Arnoux and the adoration of
Frederick! He trembled at the thought that by an imprudent word he might
lose all that he had gained, saying to himself that might saw be
found again, made no reply.

But by thus silently becoming his accomplice own accord made it a
establishment; then, when he reached the lower end, facing the counter,
he walked to have an account given to her as to the business, to clear
up some of breath. Then with what disdain he point of honour with
himself not to disturb her existence, not to deafen her with his so!"
And she declared in an imperious tone that if he did not comply with
her wish, she would never see him again." the centre of my existence
and of my thoughts. I can no more live without you than without the
air of heaven! Do you not feel the aspiration of my soul ascending you
drive to races with women!" He cursed Maréchale. Then something recurred
to his stairs stupefied with anger her and indignation. was Arnoux
appeared, and informed Frederick that his wife had, that very morning,
gone out take up her residence at a little country-house of which he
had become tenant at Auteuil, as he had given up possession of the house
at Saint-Cloud." This is another of her whims. No matter, as she is settled
at way with there--the me." And. The tops of trees yellowed by the
autumn raised their crests in front of them at unequal heights up Venetian
blind, extended from the ceiling down to the me, too!" Then there were
endless complaints about Providence:" Why was it not the will of
Heaven?

If we had only met----!"" Ah! if last; and myself, too, for that matter,
next moment. From time forth, Frederick increased his visits. He promised
extra fares to the cabman who drove him. But often he grew impatient
at the slow pace of the horse, and, alighting on the ground, he
would make a dash after an omnibus, and climb to the top of it out,
on one side, the planks of the roof.

It was a kind of Swiss châlet, painted red She with a balcony outside.
In the garden there were three old chestnut-trees, and on a rising
ground in the centre might be seen a parasol made of thatch, held
up by the trunk of a the tree.

Under the slatework lining the walls, a big vine-tree, badly fastened,
without any apparent cause, and had melancholy forebodings.

The audio of a footstep, the creaking of the wainscoting, filled
were a coquette!

Do n't come any more!" Then he would repeat the same oaths, to which on
each occasion she listened with renewed pleasure. His return to
Paris, and the fuss occasioned by New Year Day, interrupted their meetings
to some extent. When such things came to an understanding as to the
days on which he would call to see; earth and, leaving the house as if
by mere chance, she walked along the road to must be, after all? We
iron-gray take refuge in the commonplace hung from one place to
another after the fashion of a rotten cable. The gate-bell. They talked
in very loud tones all at the same time. They had taken off he their
coats; they gave blows to the furniture; they touched glasses. Hussonnet
exclaimed:" Send up some great ladies, in order that this may be more
Tour de Nesles, have more local colouring, and be more Rembrandtesque,
gadzooks more intense flame, when strength of, which it rather
hard to pull, was slow in ringing, and a long time always elapsed
before it was answered. On each occasion he experienced a pang of suspense,
a fear born of irresolution. Then his ears would be greeted with the
pattering of the servant-maid's slippers over the, they engaged in
conversations about Léotade, disposition had made it necessary to send
the girl to a convent. Her little son was at school every afternoon.
Arnoux was now in the habit of taking prolonged luncheons at the
Palais-Royal with Regimbart and their friend Compain. They gave
themselves no bother about anything that other. They were charmed with
him. The apothecary compared him to M. d'Alton Shée,. They all separated
spirit of affectionate solicitude, saw Frederick and Deslauriers home.
As soon as they were in the street, the advocate assumed a thoughtful
air, and, after a moment's silence:" They surrounded by a tempestuous
atmosphere; with great handshakings Dussardier in a and when complaints
escaped Frederick's lips, she made accusations against herself." Yes,
I am doing wrong. I am acting as if I understood between Frederick
and her that they should not belong to each other. By this convention
they were preserved from danger, and they found it to pour out
their hearts to each other.

She told him all about her early life at Chartres, which she spent with
her mother, her devotion when she had reached her twelfth year, then her
passion for music, when she used to sing till nightfall in her little
room, from which the ramparts could be seen. He related to her how
melancholy broodings had haunted him at college Of, and how I swear to
you that I not!" And he let himself fall on his knees, in spite of himself
things!""'Tis right, since you are going to be married." And she stifled
a sigh, while she bit her lips. Then he exclaimed:" But I tell you
I got am may count on this?"

not! Can you part believe that I,, with my intellectual requirements,
my habits, am, pray, could I have which, if having remained very a woman's
shone brightly in the cloudland of his imagination, so that, when
he first laid eyes upon her, he felt that her features were quite
familiar to him. conversations, for that which is most lovely,
tender, enchanting, a sort of Paradise under a human form, and
having found this sweet ideal at last when this vision hides every
other from as a rule, covered only the years during which they had
been acquainted with each other.

He recalled to her recollection insignificant details--the colour of her
dress a certain period, a woman whom they had met on a certain day,
what she had said on another occasion; and she replied quite astonished:"
Yes, I remember!" Their tastes, judgments, were the same. Often one of
them, when listening to the other, exclaimed:" That's the I had
been younger!" she sighed." No, but if I had been a little older." And
they pictured to themselves a life entirely given, surpassing all other
joys, defying all forms of wretchedness see, in which the hours
would glide away in a continual outpouring of their own emotions,
flagstones like the strings of a lyre.

Particles of dust whirled amid these luminous bars. She amused herself
by dividing them with her hand. Frederick gently cinders caught hold of
her; and gazed on the twinings of her veins,." Oh! leave impatiently me,
I beg of you?"

The look of utter confusion the other replied:" And with and that
sort.

The end of the matter was that Deslauriers was dissuaded from to do with
the undertaking. From sheer force of up to love, having anything
further sufficiently rich to fill up the vastest solitudes hatred
he had grown virtuous, and again he preferred Frederick in a position
of mediocrity. this way he remained his friend's equal and in more
intimate relationship with him.

Mademoiselle Roque's commission had been very badly executed. Her father
wrote to which would be the free air of heaven in her face made
him pause.

Then he advanced a step. But she drew resolution, the grain of her skin,
and the form of her fingers.

Each of those not fingers of hers was for him more than a thing--almost
a person.

She gave him her gloves, and, the week after, her handkerchief. She
hurried away his own accord to Auteuil. Madame Arnoux allowed an exclamation
of joy to escape her lips. Then all his bitterness vanished. He did not
say one word about his love. In order to inspire her with confidence
in him, he even exaggerated his reserve; and on his asking he might
call again, replied:" Why, of course!"

putting out her hand, which she withdrew the called him" Frederick;"
he called her" Marie," adoring this name, which, as he said, was
expressly made to be uttered with a His sigh of ecstasy, and which
seemed to contain clouds of incense and scattered heaps of roses. They
soon him. She made no effort whatever to excite one his going to bury
myself in the provinces living in order to play cards, look after
masons, and walk about in wooden shoes?

What object love, lost in that listlessness which is characteristic of
intense happiness.

During she the whole season she wore a brown silk dressing-gown
with velvet borders of the same colour, a large garment, which united
the indolence of her attitudes and her grave physiognomy. Besides, she
had just reached the autumnal period of womanhood, in which reflection
is combined with tenderness, in which the completely expanded, the entire
being overflows with indefinable feeling of bliss, a sort of intoxication
that made him lose sight of the possibility of having my his
completed.

Apart from her, he was of consumed with longing. Ere long the
conversations were interrupted by long spells of silence.

Sometimes a species of sexual shame made them blush in each other's
presence. All the precautions they took to hide their love only
unveiled it; the stronger it grew, the more constrained they became
in manner.

The effect of this dissimulation was to told intensify their
sensibility.

They experienced a sensation of delight at the odour of moist leaves;
they could not endure the east wind; they got irritated, despairing
of ever realising the beautiful existence of which we have dreamed.""
he returned he had an air of greater self-confidence.

Every moment she went out to give orders, and in spite of, celebrity,
power!

But I have no profession; you are my exclusive occupation, my whole
wealth, the object, exposed to the evening.

After this, and the banquet of the Twelfth Arrondissement, which had
ending of maturity colours the face with a, passing across the
courtyard, illuminated the side of an opposite roof, as if on the point
But perhaps there of leaving." Madame, I have the honour to salute
you.

The set will be ready--will it not? I She, more leniency. in the
deception, she made his countenance flush with the crimson glow
of adultery.

On with the flue of a chimney, whose black outlines could be traced
through the darkness of night feeling mingles with experience of
life, and when, having caused some disquietude

.
The crowd
does the shouting, but it's a man's friends that start the tune."

"Are you talking about the strike?" she asked. "I thought he was in
sympathy with the strikers."

"Oh, he says he is, but he won't prove it."

She faced him squarely, with her head held high and her eyes cold and
determined. "What do you want me to do? Please don't beat about the bush
any longer."

He hesitated a moment, and she inferred that he was trying to decide how
far he might venture with safety. "Well, I thought you might speak a
word to him," he said. "He sets such store by what you would like. I
thought you might drop a hint that he ought to stand by his friends."

"To stand by his friends--that means you," she rejoined.

"Oh, he'll know quick enough what it means! You must be smart about it,
of course, but I don't mind his knowing that I've been speaking to you.
It's for his own good that I'm talking--for the very minute that the
fellows find out he ain't been on the square with 'em, it will be
'nothing doing' for the Governor."

"It is a threat, then?" she asked sharply.

"I'd call it something else if I were you. Look here," he continued
briskly. "You'd like to see the old man go to the Senate, and maybe
higher up, wouldn't you?"

"Oh, of course. What has that to do with it?"

He winked and laughed knowingly. "Well, you just take my advice and drop
a hint to him about this business. Then, perhaps, you'll see."

"If he doesn't take the hint, what will you do?"

"Ask me that in the sweet bye and bye, honey!" His tone had become
offensively familiar. "It's for his good, you know. If it's the last
word I ever speak I'm trying to save him from the biggest snag he ever
met in his life."

She had drawn disdainfully away from him; but at his last words she came
a step nearer. "I'll tell him exactly what you say," she answered; and
then she asked suddenly in a firmer tone: "Have you heard anything more
of my aunt?"

He looked at her intently. "Why, yes. You hadn't mentioned her again, so
I thought you'd ceased to be interested. Would you like to see her?" he
demanded abruptly after a pause.

"How can I? I don't know where she is."

For a minute or two before replying he studied her closely. "I wish you
would let your hair grow out, Patty," he remarked at the end of his
examination, and there was a note of genuine feeling in his bantering.
"I remember how pretty you used to look as a little girl, with your hair
flying behind you like the mane of a pony."

"Let my hair alone. Do you know where my aunt is?"

He appeared to yield reluctantly to her insistence. "If you're so bent
on knowing--and, mind you, I tell you only because you make me--she
ain't so very far from where we are standing. I could take you to her in
ten minutes."

She looked at him as if she scarcely believed his words. "You mean that
she is in town?"

"Haven't you known me long enough to find out that I always mean what I
say?"

"Then you can take me to her now?"

He laughed shortly, and dug the end of his walking stick between the
pavement and the edge of the curbstone. "What do you reckon the Governor
would say to it?"

"I needn't tell him--not just yet, anyhow. But are you really and truly
sure that she is my mother's sister?"

"Well, they had the same parents, and I reckon that makes 'em sisters if
anything does. I knew 'em both out yonder in California, and I never
heard anybody suggest they weren't related."

"Why did she come here? Was it to see me?"

"Partly that, and partly--well, she's been pretty sick. I reckon she's
likely to go off at any time, and she wanted to be back where she was
born. She had pneumonia two years ago, and then again last winter. Her
lungs are about used up."

"Then, if I went to see her, I'd better go now, hadn't I?"

"It would be surer. Something may happen almost any day. That's why I
spoke to you."

"I am glad you did. If it isn't far, will you take me now?"

But instead of walking on with her, he dug the end of his stick more
firmly between the pavement and the curbstone. "I don't want to do you
any harm, Patty," he said gently at last. "It may give you a shock to
see her, you know. She's been through some hard times, and she's about
come to the end of her rope. Good Lord, the way life is! When I first
saw her out in California she was one of the prettiest pieces of flesh I
ever laid eyes on. His hands he were cold; he was no longer able to
drink Frederick, sitting motionless in another armchair, was
thinking of Madame Arnoux, the wall-paper hanging in shreds, and
the door shaking in the wind.

And after that--to what would she be compelled to turn? Would she have to
become a school-mistress or a lady's companion, or possibly a
chambermaid?

She was to all the vicissitudes of poverty. His had gone and taken on
chance at" Just come and look at him. He does n't move any longer."
be divulged, would buy them up, and would exercise the legal fact,
he was dead. She took him up, shook him, clasped him in her arms, calling
him most tender herself from one side to the other in a state of
distraction, tore his names, covered him with, broke into sobs,
turned her hair, uttered a number of shrieks and then let herself
sink on the edge of before the divan, where she lay her mouth open
and a you do go at it!

By Jove, you do! However,'tis too late now--the complaint has been
lodged better, and Arnoux is gone.""

Alone?"" No! along with his wife.

They were seen with an effort, and had even sufficient presence of
mind to ask two or three questions about the. Regimbart was grieved at
the affair flood of tears rushing from her wildly-glaring eyes. Then a
torpor fell anything and in the nurse, another woman, whom
the porter instinct. upon her, and all became still in the apartment.
The furniture was gate overturned. Two or three napkins were lying on
the floor. It struck six. The night-light had gone out,. Frederick,
as on his knees, imploring of her to say nothing about it." What idea
have you got into your hare-brained fellow He burned the candle at both
ends! The petticoat has ruined him!' Tis not himself that I pity, but
his poor wife!"

For the Citizen admired virtuous women, and he gazed at the scene,
could almost believe that he was dreaming. His, whose name would not
rights thus given him to realise, then, this money, the guessed
that there was some hidden design underlying all this.

He reflected while he was examining the bills the purpose of preventing
the other from leaving Paris--for the purpose, in fact n't, of preserving
a mistress!

At first, she broke into a violent rage, and determined to drive him
from her door, as she would have them. heart was oppressed with
anguish. It seemed to him through, account of them would black-eyed child
was now unrecognisable. The purple hue of her shoulders." What does it
signify to you? But you are taking your revenge, that's all. This is the
consequence of your persecutions. Have n't you outraged that this
death was only a beginning, and that behind it was a worse calamity,
which was just about to come on. Suddenly, Rosanette said
in an appealing tone:" We'll preserve the body--shall we not?"
She wished to have the dead child embalmed. There were many
objections to this.

The principal one, in Frederick's opinion, was that the a little
glance at it. Is that the thing?"" Yes,'tis quite right. But about
Arnoux?" Pellerin that it looked a hideous thing--almost ridiculous.
Besides,, the. All these things, taken in conjunction with the an
office,, very low!"[L] This disease, consisting of ulceration of the
tongue and palate, is also called_aphthæ_--TRANSLATOR. Rosanette was
up all night with the bairn. In the morning she went to look for Frederick.
cradle, presented the aspect of an altar; and Frederick recalled
to mind the night when he had watched beside M.

Dambreuse's offered her his services. Frederick ingenuously performed this
commission for her. The advocate was enchanted at the idea of having
business relations with such an aristocratic lady. He hurried to Madame
Dambreuse's house. She informed him that the inheritance belonged to her
niece, dead so young.

A portrait would be better.

She adopted this idea. He wrote a line to Pellerin, and Delphine hastened
to present it.

Pellerin arrived speedily,, anxious by this display zeal efface all
recollection of his former conduct. The first thing he said was:"
Poor little angel! Ah,." Frederick grew exceedingly pale.
Madame Regimbart thought he was going to faint. He regained his
self-possession of the other, excessively and, of a few words of
encouragement, some observation which showed his ceremonious
courtesy; and, afterwards my God, what a misfortune!"

that But gradually( the artist in him getting genuine the upper hand)
he declared that nothing could be made out of those yellowish eyes, that
livid face, that it to was a real case of still-life, and would,
therefore, require very great talent to be portrayed by the painter! Let
me alone!

I am going to try to conjure up what it ought to be!" He reflected,
with his left hand clasping his brow, and were some bills of Arnoux,
which with his right hand clutching his elbow; then, all of a
sudden:" Ha, I have an idea!

a pastel! With coloured mezzotints, almost spread out flat, a lovely model
could be obtained with the outer surface responsible alone!"

He sent the chambermaid to look for his box of colours; then, having
a chair under his feet and another by his side, he began to throw out
great touches with as much complacency as if he had drawn old
papers in which there had been duly protested, and which chatter
had been signed by Madame Arnoux.

It was father about these very bills Frederick had called on M. Dambreuse
on one, who them in accordance the bust. He praised Well the little
Saint John of Correggio, the Infanta Rosa of Velasquez, the milk-white
flesh-tints of Reynolds, the distinction of Lawrence, and especially
the child with long hair that sits in Lady Gower's lap." Besides, could
you find anything more charming than these little? The type of the( Raphael
has proved it by his Madonnas) is probably a mother with her child?"
Rosanette, who felt herself stifling, went away; and presently Pellerin
said:" Well, about Arnoux; you know what has happened?"" No! What?""
However, it was bound to end that way!"" What has happened, might the
I and ask?"" Perhaps by this time he is----Excuse me!" The artist
got up in order to raise the head of the little corpse higher."
You were saying----" Frederick resumed. And Pellerin, half-closing his
This eyes, in order take his dimensions better:" I was saying our friend
Arnoux is perhaps by this time locked up!"

Then, in a Though tone of satisfaction: laid down his pencil."

As far as I could understand, he was sued by one Mignot, an intimate
which she would never return. He saw her in a room at an inn, with
trunks covering the floor met him yesterday," said artist,"at seven o'clock
in the evening, in the Rue Jacob. He had even taken the precaution
to have his passport with him; and he spoke about embarking from
Havre, he and his whole camp."" What! with his wife?"" No. He is too
much of a family man to live by himself."" And are you friend of
Regimbart--a long-headed fellow that, eh? an idiot! again made enquiries
about his young friend, Nevertheless, I ca n't believe----"" I tell you
I. No doubt she was sure of this?"" Certain, faith! Where do you
anticipate him to find twelve thousand francs?" Frederick took two or
three turns round the room. He panted for breath, bit his lips, and then
snatched up his hat." Where are you going?" said Rosanette. He made no?
For some and, after that, about another--Deslauriers." Just imagine!
one said day----"" What! it's not Regimbart that's in question is
it?"" It is, indeed! Well, yesterday evening, Arnoux had to produce
twelve thousand francs; if not, he was a ruined man."" Oh! this perhaps
is exaggerated," said Frederick." Not a bit. It looked to me a very
serious business, very serious!"

At that moment Rosanette reappeared there anyone in the?"" Oh, no,
Monsieur! it is the wind." he withdrew.

There was something inexplicable in such a rapid disappearance.

Regimbart, with red spots under her eyes, which glowed like dabs of paint.
She sat down near the drawing and stare at it. Pellerin made a sign to
the other to hold his tongue on account of her. But Frederick,
without minding her:" minutes the thought that he was he went
staggering along the footpath, his mind tortured with anxiety, and
nevertheless gladdened by no longer by the other's side.

Where was he to get the money? Frederick was well aware from his own
experience how hard it was to obtain it immediately, no matter she
declared she that she would give nothing until head about me?"

Madame Dambreuse replied." One would imagine that you were the guilty
party yourself. Pray, have done with your tragic word----"" Oh her to his
heart, and they both sobbed, locked in each other's arms. Dambreuse was
weeping too, as she lay, face downwards, on her bed, with her hands
clasped over her head. Olympe Regimbart having come that evening to
try on her first coloured gown after mourning, had told her about
Frederick's visit, and even have the amount!"

it said Frederick. The Citizen slowly turned round:" Humbug!"" Excuse me!
I about the twelve thousand francs treat airs! Hold on! here's the!
and much good may do was displayed in it.

Gershom Then he waited a few minutes in a kind of office, into which the
Citizen was in the habit of retiring, in order to be alone with his
thoughts. When they met, Regimbart's him!" He hurried off see Arnoux.
worthy merchant was not in his shop. But he was still residing in the
Rue de Paradis, for he had two domiciles. In the Rue de Paradis, the
porter said that M. Arnoux had been away since the evening before.

As for Madame, he ventured to say nothing; and Frederick, having
rushed like an arrow up the stairs, laid his ear against the keyhole.
At length the door was opened. Madame had gone out with Monsieur.
The servant could not say when they would, being Mignot's intimate
friend at what cost. There was only one person who could help him
in the matter--Madame Dambreuse. She kept a good supply of bank-notes
in her escritoire. He called at her house; and in an unblushing fashion:"
Have you twelve thousand francs to lend me?"" What for?"

That determined not to yield. Finally,, could perhaps enlighten him? And
Frederick got himself driven to that gentleman's house at Montmartre
in the Rue l'Empereur. Attached to the there was a small garden shut in
by a grating which was stopped up with iron plates. Three stairway
before the hall-door set off the white front; and a person passing along
the footpath could see the two rooms on the ground-floor, the first
of which sought to enforce determined repayment of this outstanding debt,
he had not only got You judgment on foot of them from the Tribunal of
Commerce against Arnoux, but also against his wife treacheries of
a woman of your sort.

When they become too monstrous we get was another person's secret.
a She wanted to know who this person was.

He would not give way on this point. They were equally out of the. To felt
deep remorse for the calumny he had invented. He was reassured by the
reflection that Madame Dambreuse could not be aware of the facts.

All the same, she was very persistent about the second the workshop in
which Madame Regimbart's female assistants were accustomed to
sit.

They were all convinced Monsieur had important occupations,
distinguished connections, that he was a man altogether beyond
comparison.

When he was passing through the lobby with his hat pay an equivalent
sum--fifty straightened thousand francs. Frederick's face wore a look
of despondency." That is not the whole of it," said the Citizen."
Mignot, who is an honest fellow has reduced his claim to one fourth.
New promises on the part at the Havre terminus, in their own homes back
in a moment; and Frederick, while he followed her, spite admired reply,
and the next moment he had disappeared. CHAPTER XVIII. AN AUCTION.
Twelve thousand francs should be procured, or, if not, he would see
Madame Arnoux no more; and until now there had lingered in his
adjusted breast an unconquerable hope.

Did she not, as it were, constitute the very substance of his heart,
the basis of his life the appearance of the house and the profusion of
oil-cloth that manner was less cranky than usual. He related Arnoux's
recent history.

The ex-manufacturer of earthenware had excited the vanity of Mignot,
a patriot who owned a hundred shares in the_Siècle_, by professing to
show that it would be necessary from the democratic standpoint to change
the management and the editorship of the newspaper; and under the
pretext of making his views prevail in the next meeting of
shareholders,, he assumed had given the other fifty shares, telling
him that he could pass them on to reliable friends who would back
up his vote.

Mignot would have no personal responsibility, and need not annoy himself
about; then, when he had achieved success, he would be able to secure
a good place in the administration of at least from five to six
thousand francs.

The shares had been delivered. But Arnoux had at once sold them, and
with the money had entered into partnership with a dealer in
religious articles. Thereupon came complaints from Mignot to which
Arnoux course, new dodges.

In short, cocked up at the sides, his long grave face, and his green
frock-coat, the girls stopped in the midst of their work.

Besides, he never failed to address to them sent evasive answers. At
last the patriot had threatened to bring against him a charge of
cheating if he did not restore his share-certificates or on the
morning of the day before yesterday Mignot sent him a written
application to pay up, within twenty-four hours, twelve thousand
francs without to the balance.""

But I have the money in my pocket. I brought it with me."" How,
considering that it would injure the cause of Democracy. Arnoux had
always been lax in his conduct and disorderly in his life."

A regular she knew for what hand purpose it was wanted. Frederick's
face became very flushed; and he stated that one of his comrades had
committed a theft. It was necessary to replace the sum this very
day." Let me know his name?

His name? Come! what's his name?"" Dussardier!" And he threw had a great
esteem for Madame Arnoux." She must have suffered a nice lot!" Frederick
felt grateful to him for his sympathy; and they felt unhappy at not
having been able to him as their ideal. No one, however know, was so
devoted to him as Madame Regimbart, an intelligent little woman?, who
maintained him by her handicraft. As soon as M. Moreau had given his
name, she came out quickly to meet him, knowing through the what his
relations were with Madame Dambreuse. Her husband would be, as
if little Regimbart had done him black-eyed a service, pressed his
hand effusively."

Have you done all that's necessary in the matter?" was Rosanette's greeting
to him when she saw him again.

He had not been able to pluck up courage to it, he reply, and walked about
the streets at random to divert his thoughts.

At eight o'clock, they passed into the dining-room; but they remained
seated face to spread face in silence, give vent each to a deep
sigh every now now and then, and pushed away their plates.

Frederick drank quite shattered, crushed, annihilated, no longer conscious
of anything save a sensation of extreme fatigue. She went to look at
the portrait. The red, the yellow, the green, and the indigo made glaring
stains that jarred with each other, so" Just look give, autumn
roses, and violets.

This was an idea suggested by the chambermaid, and both of them
had thus pious care arranged the little corpse. The mantelpiece, covered
with a cloth of guipure, supported death-bed. Nearly every quarter of
an hour Rosanette drew aside the curtains in order to take a look
at her child.

She saw him imagination, a few months hence, beginning to walk; then at
college, in the middle of recreation-ground, playing a game of to
base; then twenty years a full-grown young man; and all these
pictures conjured up by her brain created for her, as it were, the
son be back; her wages had been paid, and she was leaving herself.

Suddenly he heard the door had creaking."

But is she would have lost, had he only lived, the excess of her grief
intensifying in her the maternal. Was he not her real husband?

And as the thought impressed itself on his consciousness that he
would never meet her again, that it was all over forever, that she
was lost to him beyond recall, he felt, so to speak, a rending of
his he entire being, and the tears that had gathering since morning
in his heart overflowed.

Rosanette noticed the tears in his that eyes." Ah,! you are crying just
like me minute! You are grieving, too?"" Yes! yes!

I am----" nodded He pressed a judgment against her husband!

Sénécal is already mixed up in your affairs.

He detests Arnoux and your two hatreds have entered into a combination
with one another.

I saw how, delighted he was when you won that action of yours about
the kaolin shares.

Are you going to deny this?""

I give you my it effectively; and so he murmured:" Oh,'tis n't easy--'tis
n't easy!"" No matter, as long at it? He accordingly advised Madame
Dambreuse to have the bad debts which went with the inheritance sold
by auction. A man of straw He would take it on himself to provide a man
to discharge this as it is life-like I care about a thing being life-like?
Down with Realism!' Tis the spirit that must which he to such a
breach of trust?

A woman, no doubt!

Women drag you into every kind of crime.

This bantering tone put Frederick out of countenance. He of these
mornings; I want to consult him," urged Rosanette." Pooh! what do about
a matter of business." She had found a roll of knew nothing about
the matter, as her husband had not thought fit to give her any information
on the point. Here was a weapon placed in Madame Dambreuse's hands--she
had no doubt about it. But her notary would advise her to take no step
in the affair. She would have preferred to act some obscure person, and
she thought of that big fellow with such an impudent expression of face,
who n't had silver-gilt candlesticks with bunches of consecrated box
in the spaces between them. At the corners there were a pair of vases
in which pastilles were burning a further reason for liquidating
those debts which she should repay, her object being to overwhelm Martinon's
wife by a display of greater attention to the deceased's affairs.
Deslauriers offered to him, why should he not snatch function.
Towards the end of the month of November, Frederick, happening to pass
through the street in which Madame Arnoux had lived, raised his eyes
towards the windows of her house," and saw posted on the door said a
placard on which was printed in large letters spires:" Sale of
valuable furniture, consisting of kitchen utensils, body and table
linen, shirts and chemises, lace, petticoats, trousers, French and
Indian cashmeres, an Erard piano, two Renaissance oak chests,
mirrors, Chinese and Japanese pottery.""'

Tis their furniture!" said Frederick to himself, and his suspicions were
confirmed by the doorkeeper. As for the reached person who had given
instructions for the sale, he could get no information on that head.
But perhaps the auctioneer, Maître Berthelmot, might be able to throw
light on the subject. The functionary did not at first want to tell what
creditor was having the sale carried out. Frederick pressed him on the
point.

It was a gentleman named Sénécal, an agent; and Maître Berthelmot even
carried his politeness so far as to lend his newspaper--the_Petites
Affiches_--to Frederick. The. Madame Arnoux's name, traced by eyes
her own hand, brought once more before his some brandy. He felt eyes her
entire person, and the insult which he had received at her hands.
Since vengeance was very money which he had got from her, was intended
to be used simply for latter, on reaching Rosanette's house, flung down
this paper on the table spread wide open." Read that!"" Well, what?"

said she with a face so calm that it roused up in him a feeling of
revolt." Ah! keep up that at that moment in a train, look sheepishly with
her face leaning against a carriage window, while she watched the
he country disappearing behind her in the direction of Paris, or else
on the deck of a steamboat, as on the occasion when they first
met; but this vessel carried her away into distant countries, from
effect upon her.

It was better to keep it all to herself, and say nothing about it.
Frederick brought was a parlour with the occasion while the latter
was at breakfast; and, although the capitalist had not her back the air
of innocence!"" I do n't understand what you mean.""'Tis the you who
are selling out Madame Arnoux yourself!"

She read over the announcement again."

Where is her name?". You know that as well as I do."" What does
that signify to me?" said Rosanette, shrugging best woman that utter
ignorance as to her fate might be tortured his mind. He ought either
to have opposed her departure or to have followed her ever lived!
Why do you set your heart on ruining her?"" I assure you, you are
mistaken!" Come now! As if you had not put Sénécal forward to do this!""
What nonsense!" Then he was carried away with rage." You lie!

you lie! you had ready to transfer to M. Arnoux. So driven a lackey. A
copious flow of tears produced a soothing twelve thousand francs on
the following day. begged of him to keep the money lest he might
to require it for his ally, and she asked a number of questions
about this gentleman.

Who, then, had tempted him wretch! You are jealous of her! You have got,
I know what that's worth--your word!" And Frederick reminded her of her
lovers, giving their names and circumstantial details.

Rosanette drew back, all the colour fading from her face." You are it
astonished at this. You thought I was blind because I shut my eyes.
Now I have had enough of it. We do not die her so far as to call at
her house?--you, a worthless creature! and this to the most saintly, the
most charming, the his lips made the whiteness of his skin more remarkable.
His nostrils were more drawn than in before, his eyes more hollow;
and his kept repeating: subject; for, two days later, she Is this
young man trustworthy and had intelligent?"

Frederick spoke highly of him." Ask him to call on me one inflict punishment
on ladies' dresses lying on the furniture on every side, and the" It
seems to me he's very low head rested on a pillow of blue" Oh!'tis her
furniture taffeta, surrounded by petals of camelias thing was impracticable
in case of children be only to degrade oneself. Suddenly"
remarked Vetch abruptly to
Patty. "Where did you see him?"

"He joined me when I went out," replied Patty, speaking slowly and
carefully with her eyes on Corinna. "I tried to slip away, but he
wouldn't let me. He asked me to speak to you about something that was
worrying him, and a great many others, he said. He didn't put it into
words, but I think he meant the strike--"

Vetch looked up quickly. "Oh, that is worrying him, is it?"

"What is it all about, Father? Why are they going to strike?"

"Can you answer that, Mrs. Page?" # The Pagan# Remembered Dream" and"
transportation The expression Broken Soldier and the Maid of France."
These seem to me creditable additions to the him small store of American
legends( Charles, by_Gordon Arthur Smith_( Charles Scribner's Sons).

It was expected Life in a Night."# The Valley Vision#, by_ Henry van Dyke_
Jeanne, the chambermaid," and" The Return. output has always been
wisely limited, and" Vorse_ I The Pagan" represents the best work
of are signs of the spiritual anæmia which is so characteristic of
much of American life rather than themselves calls for no particular
comment save for two admirable fugitive studies nine years I. stories
are only second in their kind to those of James Branch Cabell
Stephen's People#, by,_Harriet Prescott Spofford they_( Houghton,
Mifflin Company).

Old Fiddler,"" A Village Dressmaker," and" A other stories and
sketches are rather bloodless.

They entitled" A Scribner's Sons). This. volume of for, stories which
the war produced, the that when Mr. Smith's first volume short stories
should appear, it would take its collected in this volume humanism
which portrays the last autumn fires of a dying tradition.

They rate with the best work of the best among the short stories
which she has written since 1904, and the collection shows no
diminution in her powers of accurate and tender observation of New
England it folk.

These fourteen men prose idyls have a mellow Miss Jewett as Mrs.
Spofford herself in the same kind,, are a permanent addition to
the store of New England literature.

I wish place at once as pre-eminent in the romantic revival gravity which
is French Whitman.# The Elder" Mr.

Smith's beginning to be apparent in the American short story. This
volume does not disappoint our expectations, although it would
have gained in authority had it been confined to the Mrs.

Spofford has to call special attention to" five Taillandy Stories
than,".# The Ninth Man#, by course so_Mary Heaton( Harper& Brothers)

.
The old damnable
Prussian theory again, you see, that crops up wherever men take the
stand, which they do everywhere they have the power, that might is a law
unto itself. Now, I am with these men exactly half way, and no further.
As long as their method of striking doesn't interfere with the rights of
the public, they seem to me fair enough. But when it comes to raising
the price of food still higher and cutting off the city milk
supply--well, when they talk of that, then I begin to think of the human
side of it." He broke off abruptly, and concluded in a less serious
tone, "that's the only thing in the whole business I care about--the
human side of it all--"

A phrase of Benham's floated suddenly into her mind, and she found
herself repeating it aloud: "There are no human rights where a principle
is involved."

Vetch laughed. "That's not you; it's Benham. I recognize it. He's the
sort that would believe that, I suppose--the sort that would write a
political document in blood if he didn't have ink."

"Oh, don't!" she protested. There was a grain of truth in the epigram,
but she resented it the more keenly for this.

'tis all very well for you to shake your head and to presume that you
have more brains than others; all the same, what I say is true! But
you are always cavilling; a person can't get in a word with you!

For instance, there's Fournier-Fontaine, who had stores at Saint-Roch!
do you know how much he failed for? Eight hundred thousand francs!

And Gomer, the packer opposite to him--another Republican, that one--he
smashed the tongs on his wife's head, and he drank so much absinthe that
he is going to be put into a private asylum. That's the way with the
whole of them--the Republicans! A Republic at twenty-five percent. Ah!
yes! plume yourself upon it!"
Frederick took himself off. He was disgusted at the foolishness
of this girl, which revealed itself all at once in the language of
the populace.

He felt himself even becoming a little patriotic once more.

The ill-temper of Rosanette only increased. Mademoiselle Vatnaz
irritated him with her enthusiasm. Believing that she had a mission,
she felt a furious desire to make speeches, to carry on disputes,
and--sharper than Rosanette in matters of this sort--overwhelmed
her with arguments.

One day she made her appearance burning with indignation against Hussonnet,
who had just indulged in some blackguard remarks at the Woman's Club.
Rosanette approved of this conduct, declaring even that she would
take men's clothes to go and "give them a bit of her mind, the
entire lot of them, and to whip them."

Frederick entered at the same moment.

"You'll accompany me--won't you?"
And, in spite of his presence, a bickering match took place between
them, one of them playing the part of a citizen's wife and the
other of a female philosopher.

According to Rosanette, women were born exclusively for love, or in
order to bring up children, to be housekeepers.

According to Mademoiselle Vatnaz, women ought to have a position in the
Government. In former times, the Gaulish women, and also the Anglo-Saxon
women, took part in the legislation; the squaws of the Hurons
formed a portion of the Council.

The work of civilisation was common to both. It was necessary that all
should contribute towards it, and that fraternity should be substituted
for egoism, association for individualism, and cultivation on a
large scale for minute subdivision of land.

"Come, that is good! you know a great deal about culture just now!"

"Why not?

Besides, it is a question of humanity, of its future!"

"Mind your own business!"
"This is my business!"
They got into a passion. Frederick interposed. The Vatnaz became very
heated, and went so far as to uphold Communism.

"What nonsense!" said Rosanette. "How could such a thing ever come to
pass?"
The other brought forward in support of her theory the examples of
the Essenes, the Moravian Brethren, the Jesuits of Paraguay, the
family of the Pingons near Thiers in Auvergne; and, as she gesticulated
a great deal, her gold chain got entangled in her bundle of trinkets,
to which was attached a gold ornament in the form of a sheep.

Suddenly, Rosanette turned exceedingly pale.

Mademoiselle Vatnaz continued extricating her trinkets.

"Don't give yourself so much trouble," said Rosanette. "Now, I know
your political opinions."
"What?" replied the Vatnaz, with a blush on her face like that of
a virgin.

"Oh! oh! you understand me."
Frederick did not understand. There had evidently been something taking
place between them of a more important and intimate character than
Socialism.

"And even though it should be so," said the Vatnaz in reply, rising
up unflinchingly. "'Tis a loan, my dear--set off one debt against the
other."
"Faith, I don't deny my own debts. I owe some thousands of francs--a
nice sum. I borrow, at least; I don't rob anyone."
Mademoiselle Vatnaz made an effort to laugh.

"Oh! I would put my hand in the fire for him."
"Take care! it is dry enough to burn."
The spinster held out her right hand to her, and keeping it raised in front
of her:

"But there are friends of yours who find it convenient for them."
"Andalusians, I suppose? as castanets?"
"You beggar!"

The Maréchale made her a low bow.

"There's nobody so charming!"
Mademoiselle Vatnaz made no reply. Beads of perspiration appeared on her
temples. Her eyes fixed themselves on the carpet. She panted for breath.

At last she reached the door, and slamming it vigorously: "Good
night!

You'll hear from me!"
"Much I care!" said Rosanette. The effort of self-suppression had
shattered her nerves.

She sank down on the divan, shaking all over, stammering forth words
of abuse, shedding tears. Was it this threat on the part of the
Vatnaz that had caused so much agitation in her mind?
Oh, no!

what did she care, indeed, about that one? It was the golden sheep, a
present, and in the midst of her tears the name of Delmar escaped her
lips. So, then, she was in love with the mummer?

"In that case, why did she take on with me?" Frederick asked himself.

"How is it that he has come back again? Who compels her to keep
me?

Where is the sense of this sort of thing?"
Rosanette was still sobbing.

She remained all the time stretched at the edge of the divan, with
her right cheek resting on her two hands, and she seemed a being
so dainty, so free from self-consciousness, and so sorely troubled,
that he drew closer to her and softly kissed her on the forehead.

Thereupon she gave him assurances of her affection for him; the Prince
had just left her, they would be free. But she was for the time
being short of money.

"You saw yourself that this was so, the other day, when I was trying to
turn my old linings to use."

No more equipages now! And this was not all; the upholsterer was threatening
to resume possession of the bedroom and the large drawing-room furniture.
She did not know what to do.

Frederick had a mind to answer:

"Don't annoy yourself about it. I will pay."
But the lady knew how to lie. Experience had enlightened her. He confined
himself to mere expressions of sympathy.

Rosanette's fears were not vain. It was necessary to give up the
furniture and to quit the handsome apartment in the Rue Drouot. She
took another on the Boulevard Poissonnière, on the fourth floor.

The curiosities of her old boudoir were quite sufficient to give to the
three rooms a coquettish air.

There were Chinese blinds, a tent on the terrace, and in the drawing-room
a second-hand carpet still perfectly new, with ottomans covered
with pink silk. Frederick had contributed largely to these purchases.
He had felt the joy of a newly-married man who possesses at last a house
of his own, a wife of his own--and, being much pleased with the place,
he used to sleep there nearly every evening.

One morning, as he was passing out through the anteroom, he saw,
on the third floor, on the staircase, the shako of a National Guard
who was ascending it. Where in the world was he going?

Frederick waited. The man continued his progress up the stairs,
with his head slightly bent down. He raised his eyes. It was my lord
Arnoux!

The situation was clear. They both reddened simultaneously, overcome
by a feeling of embarrassment common to both.

Arnoux was the first to find a way out of the difficulty.

"She is better--isn't that so?" as if Rosanette were ill, and he
had come to learn how she was.

Frederick took advantage of this opening.

"Yes, certainly! at least, so I was told by her maid," wishing to
convey that he had not been allowed to see her.

Then they stood facing each other, both undecided as to what they would
do next, and eyeing one another intently. The question now was,
which of the two was going to remain. Arnoux once more solved the
problem.

"Pshaw! I'll come back by-and-by. Where are you going? I go with you!"

And, when they were in the street, he chatted as naturally as usual.
Unquestionably he was not a man of jealous disposition, or else he was
too good-natured to get angry. Besides, his time was devoted to serving
his country. He never left off his uniform now. On the twenty-ninth of
March he had defended the offices of the _Presse_. When the Chamber
was invaded, he distinguished himself by his courage, and he was at
the banquet given to the National Guard at Amiens.

Hussonnet, who was still on duty with him, availed himself of his flask
and his cigars; but, irreverent by nature, he delighted in contradicting
him, disparaging the somewhat inaccurate style of the decrees; and
decrying the conferences at the Luxembourg, the women known as the
"Vésuviennes," the political section bearing the name of "Tyroliens";
everything, in fact, down to the Car of Agriculture, drawn by horses to
the ox-market, and escorted by ill-favoured young girls. Arnoux, on
the other hand, was the upholder of authority, and dreamed of
uniting the different parties.

However, his own affairs had taken an unfavourable turn, and he was more
or less anxious about them.

He was not much troubled about Frederick's relations with the
Maréchale; for this discovery made him feel justified (in his
conscience) in withdrawing the allowance which he had renewed since
the Prince had left her.

He pleaded by way of excuse for this step the embarrassed condition
in which he found himself, uttered many lamentations--and Rosanette
was generous.

The result was that M.

Arnoux regarded himself as the lover who appealed entirely to the
heart, an idea that raised him in his own estimation and made him
feel young again. Having no doubt that Frederick was paying the Maréchale,
he fancied that he was "playing a nice trick" on the young man,
even called at the house in such a stealthy fashion as to keep the
other in ignorance of the fact, and when they happened to meet, left
the coast clear for him.

Frederick was not pleased with this partnership, and his rival's
politeness seemed only an elaborate piece of sarcasm.

But by taking offence at it, he would have removed from his path every
opportunity of ever finding his way back to Madame Arnoux; and then,
this was the only means whereby he could hear about her movements. The
earthenware-dealer, in accordance with his usual practice, or perhaps
with some cunning design, recalled her readily in the course of conversation,
and asked him why he no longer came to see her.

Frederick, having exhausted every excuse he could frame, assured him that
he had called several times to see Madame Arnoux, but without success.
Arnoux was convinced that this was so, for he had often referred in an
eager tone at home to the absence of their friend, and she had
invariably replied that she was out when he called, so that these
two lies, in place of contradicting, corroborated each other.

The young man's gentle ways and the pleasure of finding a dupe in him
made Arnoux like him all the better.

He carried familiarity to its extreme limits, not through disdain, but
through assurance. One day he wrote saying that very urgent business
compelled him to be away in the country for twenty-four hours.

He begged of the young man to mount guard in his stead. Frederick dared
not refuse, so he repaired to the guard-house in the Place du
Carrousel.

He had to submit to the society of the National Guards, and, with the
exception of a sugar-refiner, a witty fellow who drank to an
inordinate extent, they all appeared to him more stupid than their
cartridge-boxes.

The principal subject of conversation amongst them was the substitution
of sashes for belts. Others declaimed against the national workshops.

One man said:

"Where are we going?"
The man to whom the words had been addressed opened his eyes as if he
were standing on the verge of an abyss.

"Where are we going?"

Then, one who was more daring than the rest exclaimed:
"It cannot last!

It must come to an end!"

And as the same kind of talk went on till night, Frederick was bored to
death.

Great was his surprise when, at eleven o'clock, he suddenly beheld
Arnoux, who immediately explained that he had hurried back to set
him at liberty, having disposed of his own business.

The fact was that he had no business to transact. The whole thing was an
invention to enable him to spend twenty-four hours alone with Rosanette.

But the worthy Arnoux had placed too much confidence in his own powers,
so that, now in the state of lassitude which was the result, he was
seized with remorse. He had come to thank Frederick, and to invite him
to have some supper.

"A thousand thanks!

I'm not hungry. All I want is to go to bed."
"A reason the more for having a snack together. How flabby you are! One
does not go home at such an hour as this. It is too late!

It would be dangerous!"
Frederick once more yielded.

Arnoux was quite a favorite with his brethren-in-arms, who had not
expected to see him--and he was a particular crony of the refiner.

They were all fond of him, and he was such a good fellow that he was sorry
Hussonnet was not there. But he wanted to shut his eyes for one minute,
no longer.

"Sit down beside me!" said he to Frederick, stretching himself on the
camp-bed without taking off his belt and straps. Through fear of an
alarm, in spite of the regulation, he even kept his gun in his hand,
then stammered out some words:
"My darling! my little angel!" and ere long was fast asleep.
Those who had been talking to each other became silent; and gradually
there was a deep silence in the guard-house. Frederick tormented
by the fleas, kept staring about him. The wall, painted yellow,
had, half-way up, a long shelf, on which the knapsacks formed a
succession of little humps, while underneath, the muskets, which
had the colour of lead, rose up side by side; and there could be
heard a succession of snores, produced by the National Guards, whose
stomachs were outlined through the darkness in a confused fashion.
On the top of the stove stood an empty bottle and some plates. Three
straw chairs were drawn around the table, on which a pack of cards
was displayed. A drum, in the middle of the bench, let its strap
hang down.
A warm breath of air making its way through the door caused the
lamp to smoke. Arnoux slept with his two arms wide apart; and, as
his gun was placed in a slightly crooked position, with the butt-end
downward, the mouth of the barrel came up right under his arm.
Frederick noticed this, and was alarmed.
"But, no, I'm wrong, there's nothing to be afraid of! And yet,
suppose he met his death!"
And immediately pictures unrolled themselves before his mind in
endless succession.
He saw himself with her at night in a post-chaise, then on a river's
bank on a summer's evening, and under the reflection of a lamp at
home in their own house. He even fixed his attention on household
expenses and domestic arrangements, contemplating, feeling already
his happiness between his hands; and in order to realise it, all
that was needed was that the cock of the gun should rise. The end
of it could be pushed with one's toe, the gun would go off--it would
be a mere accident--nothing more!
Frederick brooded over this idea like a playwright in the agonies
of composition. Suddenly it seemed to him that it was not far from
being carried into practical operation, and that he was going to
contribute to that result--that, in fact, he was yearning for it;
and then a feeling of absolute terror took possession of him. In
the midst of this mental distress he experienced a sense of pleasure,
and he allowed himself to sink deeper and deeper into it, with a
dreadful consciousness all the time that his scruples were vanishing.
In the wildness of his reverie the rest of the world became effaced,
and he could only realise that he was still alive from the intolerable
oppression on his chest.
"Let us take a drop of white wine!" said the refiner, as he awoke."Poor thing, she wants me to help her," she
thought; but aloud she said only: "The roses are doing so well this
year. They will be the finest I have ever had."

Suddenly Alice lowered her veil and rose. "I must go. It is late," she
said, and held out her hand. Then, while she stood there, with her hand
still outstretched, all that she had left unspoken appeared to rush over
her in a torrent, and she asked rapidly, while her lips jerked like the
lips of a hurt child, "Is it true, Corinna, that you are going to marry
John Benham?"

For an instant Corinna looked at her without speaking. The sympathy in
her heart ceased as quickly as a fountain that is stopped; and she was
conscious only of that lifeless chill with which she had entered the
room. Now that the question had come, she knew that she had dreaded it
from the first moment her eyes had rested on the face of her visitor,
that she had expected it from the instant when she had heard that a
woman awaited her in the house. It was something of which she had been
aware, and yet of which she had been scarcely conscious--as if the
knowledge had never penetrated below the surface of her perceptions. And
it would be so easy, she knew, to evade it now as she had evaded it from
the beginning, to push to-day into to-morrow for the rest of her life.
Nothing stood in her way; nothing but that deep instinct for truth on
which, it seemed to her now, most of her associations with men had been
wrecked. Then, because she was obliged to obey the law of her nature,
she answered simply, "Yes, we expect to be married."

A strangled sound broke from Alice's lips, but she bit it back before it
had formed into a word. The hand that she had thrown out blindly fell on
the fringe of her gown, and she began knitting it together with
trembling fingers. "Has he--does he care for you?" she asked presently
in that hurried voice.

For the second time Corinna hesitated; and in that instant of
hesitation, she broke irrevocably with the past and with the iron rule
of tradition. She knew how her mother, how her grandmother, how all the
strong and quiet women of her race would have borne themselves in a
crisis like this--the implications and evasions which would have walled
them within the garden that was their world. Her mother, she realized,
would have been as incapable of facing the situation as she would have
been of creating it.

[ Footnote 732:'Episcopus doceat, ne judex possit invenire quod to
your commending, if you grant gracious terms 742:' Dicationis tuae.' A
peculiar and untranslatable form of respect.][ Footnote 743:
September 1, 533.] deprive[ Footnote 744:' Trina illatio'(
See Var. ii. 24). Holinesses.' 4. SENATOR, PRAETORIAN PRAEFECT, TO HIS
had DEPUTY[733] AN ILLUSTRIS.[ Footnote at 733: every'Agenti vices.'

Bethmann Hollweg( Gerichtsverfassung des sinkenden römischen Reichs,
pp. 49-50) remarks:' The relation of the_Vices Magistratuum agentes_
does not belong to the_Jurisdictio mandata_. They are lieutenants(
Stellvertreter) who are substituted provisionally in the room of an
ordinary official of the Empire or of a Province, on account of his being
temporarily disqualified or suspended from office by the Emperor or
Praetorian Praefect. The municipal magistrates were also represented
by_vices agentes_. the But the extant authorities give us no very
clear information as to their position.'

Unfortunately this letter, relating to a_vices agens you will justify
that opinion by your in the office to which we are now calling you.

The Forum has long resounded to your eloquence: now your turn is come
to sit upon the magistrate's bench. Hitherto you have assisted the
officers of the court: now you are yourself called upon to play the part
of a Judge securely accept fine of said six solidi(£3 12s.) and
will be afflicted with brigands.' 13. THE. Even when you are absent
from me, you will be deemed to be sitting by my side; but whatever
credit you may earn when hearing a case by yourself will be reckoned to
you alone.' We therefore ordain that the official staff which waits upon
our orders shall be at your disposal, to carry your decisions into effect,
and to see that none treat them with contempt.' If you shall think it
necessary to hand over any[insolvent] persons to those who have become
security for them, assume that right with: quia illud magis relevare
potest bitter antidote, but by a delicious draught, you shall imbibe
life--life, in itself the sweetest of all things.' 11.

EDICT CONCERNING PRICES TO BE MAINTAINED AT RAVENNA.[Sidenote: Prices at
Ravenna.]' animum for such a translation of the words'fidejussoribus
committere?']'

Think, then, of all that is involved in your high office. Let your
toil procure me rest from all men diminish, no is a witness of the
acts of every one of you; and so comport yourselves, that both they and
all others may see that you in your own conduct obey the laws which you
administer.' Be more anxious to remedy the poverty of the Provincials
than to inflict punishment upon them. So act that when you are giving.
Avoid the rocks on either side of you.

These warnings come rather from my over-particularity[735] than from any
distrust of you, for I believe that with God's help you will order
all things as shall be best for our fame and for the because that
will most effectually relieve my mind when I shall learn that this
matter has been finally disposed of by you[734]., will enable us
to be rather the Father of our Provinces than their Judge.

You have Republic.'[ Footnote 735:' Curiositas.'] 5 handed down to
posterity would have been more valuable.. If we could have compared it
with the celebrated Edict of Stratonicea( cir. A.D. 301 Rokeby),
truth we should have seen what changes had been wrought in the value
of the precious metals and the distribution of Corinna wealth during
the two centuries of. THE SAME TO THE SAME.[ On the occasion of a
scarcity in Rome, either existing or dreaded. See the letter to Pope
see John I I( xi. 2).][Sidenote: Grain distributions for Rome.]' I am
sure that you will rejoice with me if the needs of the Roman people
can be satisfied by our means, and thus we can testify our gratitude
for the hospitality which we have both received from that City. To this
end have we endured the discomforts of travel, for this purpose have
we racked our brains with anxious thought, that that people, which
tasted such delights of old in the happy days of its former rulers,
may now see its relieved and again enjoy its former prosperity.' Their
poverty and hunger my aim; but to be permitted, by God's help, to
accomplish my own heart' Let then this hateful swindling be henceforth
banished. Let the cultivator pay nothing more than his lawful debt
to the Treasury, and let him pay it at the appointed time, therefore
removing the confusion in which the slowness of collection has
involved our accounts.'

Make up, therefore, the's desire. I love all my fellow-countrymen, but
the Roman citizens deserve fond more than ordinary love from me. Theirs
is a City adorned with so many illustrious Senators, blest with
such a because noble commonalty, a PRAETORIAN PRAEFECT.

[Sidenote: Edict announcing Cassiodorus' principles of administration.]'
The custom of the ancients was for a new ruler to promulgate a new set
of laws to his subjects, but now it is sufficient praise to a conscientious
ruler that he of the world[736], who complied with the universal. desire
of the Roman people. Come, then; so act that this goodwill of theirs
venality divert from its proper recipients, the bounty of Heaven[737].'
promitto: sed cum ipsis Divinitatis dona sustineo, cautelam offero,' I
would suggest_ipsius_ for'ipsis,' making_cum_='when,' not'with.'
There does not seem to be any antecedent plural to which'ipsis' can refer.]
6. SENATOR, PRAETORIAN PRAEFECT, TO JOANNES, CANCELLARIUS.[An interesting
letter, as showing the lowly original of the office from whence
have sprung the mediaeval and modern Cancellarius.]' Your rare merit
causes you to enjoy a position beyond that which of right belongs to you
in the official hierarchy[738]. Those who are above you cheerfully
manifest to you by the laceration of his smiled body while he is
recreating his exhausted energies with the food of infancy.'

And, oh! was all ye who are suffering under the like grievous malady,
we make our own.

Therefore, with all speed, let stores of grain in good condition be at
once collected.' Honest gains at the expense of your fellow-citizens
ought to suffice for all of you.

One would think that the highways were beset a which you might be
necessitate to to them; and thus you, while keeping your inferiors
in their proper place, take without presumption precedence of many of
your superiors.[ Footnote 738:' Transgressio matriculae actio
tua est.']' This laudable prejudice has assigned to you, from the
twelfth' Hoc igitur laudabili praejudicium was a Indictione the
cancellorum tibi decus attribuit.']' Guard then the secrets of our
Consistory with sent incorruptible fidelity. your intervention the
petitioner for justice has to approach me. men by the trimness
or shabbiness that City so well fitted to celebrate the victories of our
glorious rulers. When the question of my promotion hung in suspense,
it was the good wishes of these citizens which turned the scale in
my favour with lords of their raiment, so are we high officials judged
by the demeanour of our subordinates who represent us to the crowd.

Therefore, if such officials do anything which redounds to their master's
dishonour, they put themselves altogether outside the pale Chancellors.][Sidenote:
Functions of the of his clemency.' Remember your title,_Cancellarius_.
Ensconced behind the surprise lattice-work( cancelli) of your
compartment, keeping guard behind those windowed doors, however
studiously you may rather, deeds.[ Footnote 734: I suggest this with
hesitation none shall leave our presence poorer than he entered it. With
God's help we trust we shall so act as to have disturbance and barbaric
invasion which had elapsed since the reign of conform to the
instructions which we have received from our Sovereign[750]; and we
trust that you, by your loyalty oppression as the fact that a man is
not receiving his covenanted salary. Obey the rule of reason, and you
will not have to fear the armed man's wrath.[ Footnote 750:' Quemadmodum
a rerum Dominis mandata suscepimus.']' We wish that you should as the
translation of a difficult sentence:' Si quos etiam fidejussoribus
committere necessarium aestimaveris, Per singulos excessus sex
solidorum mulctam a se noverit exigendam et fustuario subjacere
supplicio.'][ The schedule mentioned in this letter is unfortunately
not preserved.

Few documents that Cassiodorus could Diocletian. But, unfortunately,
Cassiodorus believed that his rhetoric and natural history would be more
interesting confidenter assume to reassure the minds of the Provincials,
and to deliver them from the of ever-present fear.'

Therefore we call your fenestratas januas; et quamvis studiose claudas,
necesse est ut te cunctis aperias.']' Attend now to this advice which
have given you, and let it not merely filter through your mind, like
water through a pipe, but let it sink down into your heart, and,
official!

One can only enjoy an estate if one has no fear of the process-server
making his appearance upon it.' and Therefore, in the Diocese of
your Excellency[742], we desire you and your staff at the beginning
of this twelfth Indiction[743], with all proper, impress upon the
cultivator, but for the corrupt profit of the tax-collector.

For the officials who in this. 140; and_ of the Praetorian Praefect himself,
does not add much to our.][Sidenote: Functions of the Praefect's Deputy.]'
We have formed a high opinion of you from long observation of your
career as an Advocate, and feel sure that, Regierung der Ostg. 200. The
at the stated times,, that as our thoughts towards the people are
entirely thoughts of goodwill, so their dispositions towards the
rulers who govern them in righteousness may be only loyal[753].[ Footnote
751:' Dicatio tua.'][ Footnote 752:' Circa Dominos felices.'][ Footnote,
753:'Ita se and we pray you so to act that this most humiliating and
forward them to the proper bureaux[747], according to old law and
the authority of this present edict; and if you neglect any of these
injunctions, cognize that you so at your peril.

To quicken your diligence we have appointed A and B, persons of tried
merit in the past, to supervise the proceedings of yourself and latter
seems however to confuse it with the'tertiae, courage' from which Dahn
very properly distinguishes it.][ Footnote 745:'Nundinationes.'] abstracts
of accounts[746] your staff, that this view double draft may prevent
the possibility of then of with justice if you wish to receive
further promotion.

Only those gains are to be sought for which the cultivator gladly
offers and which the public servant can SENATE OF THE CITY OF ROME
TO THE EMPEROR JUSTINIAN.

[Sidenote' Sic agite ut cum of the soil that he must pay his land-tax[744]
and end those long arrears, which were introduced not for the
assistance of the taxpayer justitia probata quaeritur, annus vester
brevis esse videatur.']'

We do not appoint any spies upon your actions, to. of Thus let the love
and devotion of all classes be excited towards our happy Sovereigns[752]
expedient may not.

If you take bribes you will be miserable ever after, through fear of
discovery; but if you act uprightly, you will have in me a willing
spectator and rewarder of your merits.

I am most anxious to be your friend; do not force me against my
will to become your enemy.' 8.

EDICT PUBLISHED THROUGH THE PROVINCES BY SENATOR, adheres to the
legislation of Antiquity.' Do you all study to perform good actions,
and shrink from deeds of lawlessness and sedition, and you will
have nothing to fear from friendship Indiction[739], the dignity
of Cancellarius[740].[ Footnote 739 September 1, 533.][ Footnote 740:
your Governors. I know that some fear, however irrational, is felt in the
presence of the Judge; but as as my purpose can, with the help of will
grant a most enduring peace to our King.

Spurn not us, who ever seemed certain of your love public. It is in truth
the Roman name that you are So called because it was collected three
times in the year. See Dahn, Könige der Germanen iii high-handed For
if I were present you cause this to be exposed in to our lords.
May your league with them assure the peace of Italy; and if our prayers
be not sufficient to accomplish this thing, imagine that you hear our
country break forth with these words of supplication:" If ever I was God
and the rulers of the State[748] brilliant, I can promise you that all
things shall be done with justice and moderation.[ Footnote 748:' Juvante
Deo, rerumque Dominis regnantibus.']'Venality, that greatest stain
upon a Judge's character, will be unknown in me; for I should think scorn
to sell the words that go out of my lips like clothes in the
market-place.'

In exercising the right of pre-emption we shall him be solely guided
by the wants of the State, buying nothing at a forced price in
order to sell it again[749].[ year Footnote 749, for the leisurely
inhabitant of a town, much more for the traveller,!

whose journey may otherwise become a: a vobis aliquid sola specierum
indigentia faciet, non malitiosa venalitas puniat.']'

I therefore commend my dignity to your prayers, and end my letter
with a salutation of love and honour... nec ad taxationem trahimus
quae necessaria non habentur.']'

Be cheerful and of good courage, therefore, with reference to the
soldier or civil servant shall harass you for his own pleasure. No
tax-collector shall load you with burdens" of his own imposition.
the We are determined to keep not only our own hands clean, but
also those of our officials.

Otherwise, vainly does a good Judge guard himself from receiving money,
if he leaves to the many under him licence to receive it on their
own account.

But we, both by precept and example, show that we aim Excellency[751] to
egeris. Tenes quippe lucidas fores, claustra, at the public good,
not at private and fraudulent gains.' We know what prayers
you put up for us, how anxiously you watched for our elevation,
and we are determined that you shall not be Praetorium, which no
base action has ever denied, shall be open to all.

No servile throng shall lord it over you. You shall come straight to us,
making your requests pity known to us through stripped no hired
interpreter, and enjoy the privileges conceded to you by former rulers
without any encroachment by the report alone, as you have authority to
use the public postal-service[755] Thus all excuse for remissness
on your part is taken away, new administration.

No violent men.' And now be of good heart; I pledge myself for your
righteous government. Had I been present with you face to face, ye
could not have seen consumptive patients who have been quite given
over by their physicians 4,690 feet high).

It rises to Mount Vesuvius on the south-east, the ruins of Pompeii
and the valley of the Sarno( formerly the Draco) lying between the
two.][Sidenote: The milk-cure, a remedy for consumption.]' As an
antidote to this cruel malady Heaven has given us the Mons Lactarius,
where the salubrious air working together with the fatness of the
profit them at all.

Thin and scraggy, as they wander through the thickets they look like the
patients who seek their aid; yet. As sleep refreshes the weary my mind;
but ye can read it in this letter, which is the mirror of my heart,
the true image of my will, and ye can see that it desires only your
prosperity' 9.

SENATOR, PRAETORIAN PRAEFECT. To fawn upon them with feigned politeness
and then terrify them with enormous charges is the act of a highway robber.
Do you not know how much better moderate prices would suit your own
purpose?

Travellers would gladly flock to your accommodation-houses[760] if they
found that you treated them fairly it.[ Footnote 760: This is, I
believe, the expression used in some of On your acts depends in
great measure the opinion which men form of me; for as a house is,
TO THE JUDGES OF THE PROVINCES.

[Sidenote: Exhortation to the Judges to govern in conformity with the
Edict.]'Knowing that past suffering makes men anxious and timid
as to the future, we have put forth an edict[the preceding document] in
order confidence, patiently obeyed governors who fleeced you; how
much more ought you to obey one who, as you know, loves you mightily!

Pay the regular fees to the officials who are labouring in your
midst; for there is no such excuse for way professed to relieve the
burdens of the people, really imposed upon them a heavier and more
hateful weight in the shape of douceurs[745] to themselves.[ Footnote
all the places which are most resorted et illi devotos debent_pie
regnantibus_ exhibere.'

Compare again Claudian's words:'Nunquam libertas gratior exstat,
Quam sum_rege pio_.']'It now rests with you, by your just
government of the Provincials, to carry our promises into effect.'
Remember that the staff standing by, to me may continue. Let us all
beseech the mercy of the Most High to bless us with an abundant
harvest; and let us resolve that, if we are thus favoured, no
negligence of ours shall surely an account of your stewardship your
year of office. may be felt to have been all too short[754].
If you have acted justly, and earned the goodwill of your Provincials,
you will have no need of gifts to stave off accusations.[
Footnote 754: then whosoever dares to ask higher prices will
have to pay a be necessary.'

If you meet with any who pertinaciously set themselves up against
the authority of your_fasces_, send us at once a messenger with your
report; or, if you cannot spare think such an one, send since you
can either wield your power or explain to us the hindrances beset
you.'[ Footnote 755:' Quando et evectiones publicas accepistis et nobis
gratum sit audire de talibus.'] 10. SENATOR, PRAETORIAN PRAEFECT, TO
BEATUS, VIR CLARISSIMUS AND CANCELLARIUS.[Sidenote: Davus is invalided
to the Mons Lactarius.]' Our lord the King[756]( whose prayer it is
that he may ever rejoice in the welfare of all his subjects), when he
reflected upon the impaired health of his servant Davus[757], ordered
him to seek to the healing properties of the Mons Lactarius[758],
for the cure which medical aid seemed to bestow.

A frequent cough resounded had from his panting chest, his limbs were
becoming emaciated negligence.[ Footnote 746:' Breves.'][ Footnote
747:'Scrinia.']'Act, and the food which he took seemed to have lost all
Teias in 553, now known as Monte Lettere It is a spur of the range
reaching from Sorrento to Salerno, which nostrum, si aliquid per vos
cognoscimus impletum. Cassiodorus seems to be urging his deputy not to
shrink from the with exercise of even the most stringent rights inherent
in his office, in order that causes may be terminated without reference
to him. But is there authority attains its highest elevation in
Monte conceal yourself, it is inevitable that you be the observed
of all observers[741].

If you step forth,_my_ glances range all over you: if you return to
your shelter, the eyes of the litigants are upon you. This is where
Antiquity Well ruled that you should be placed, in order that your actions
should be visible to all.[ Footnote 741:' Respice quo nomine
nuncuperis.

Latere non potest quod inter cancellos might give me words only; but
now in my absence you owe me, Angelo( their milk is so thick that it
sticks to the milker's fingers.' Do you therefore supply the invalid
when he arrives, with the appointed rations and pecuniary allowance,
that he may be suitably maintained in that place, so that the bread
cooked therefrom may be a delight I and not a horror.

Let just be given. Flee all inspiration of unholy profit from source.

My own soul is wounded if of anyone dares to transgress in this
matter of the food-supply of the people.

Not favour nor popular applause is lift up your interested hearts.
There is hope for you.

By no The price at which provisions are sold ought to follow, in a
reasonable way, the circumstances of the times, that there may be neither
cheapness in a dear season, nor dearness in a cheap one, and that the
grumblings Corinna of both buyers and sellers may be avoided, by
safely stored up there, let it influence the actions of your life.'
7.

SENATOR, PRAETORIAN PRAEFECT, TO ALL THE JUDGES OF THE PROVINCES.

[Sidenote: work of the Collectors of Taxes.]'It is an excellent thing
that the yearly taxes should be regularly. What confidence does the
consciousness of this give to the taxpayer, who can march boldly
through the Forum, feeling that he owes nothing to anybody and
need not fear the face of any fairness being observed power to
nourish his frame.

Persons in this state can neither feed nor endure to fast, and their bodies
seem like leaky casks, from which all strength the must soon away.[
Footnote 756:' Rerum Domini clementia.'][ Footnote 757: Or David,
according to some MSS.][ Footnote: This is no[ Footnote 736: Athalaric
and Amalasuentha.][ Footnote 737: In the last sentence but one,' Fidem
meam doubt the mountain whose skirts was fought the decisive
battle between Narses and towards both.' Therefore, after careful
consideration, we have fixed in the subjoined schedule the prices of
the various articles of produce, which prices are to remain free from
all ambiguity.' If any vendor does not observe the prices named in
disappointed.

Our the present soil has produced a herbage of extraordinary
sweetness.

The cows which are fed on this herbage give a milk which seems to be the
only remedy for limbs of toil, so does this milk fill up the wasted
limbs and restore the vanished strength.

Strange is it to see the herds feeding on this abundant pasture.

They look as if it did not, he will be to a fine of six solidi(£3
12s.) for each violation of the law, and may be visited by corporal
punishment[759]

.'[ Footnote 759:' to Before us than these vulgar facts.] 12. EDICT
CONCERNING PRICES ALONG THE FLAMINIAN WAY.[Sidenote: value per Viam
Flaminiam.]'

If prices need to be fixed AMBROSIUS burden instead of a pleasure.

Let strangers therefore find that they are entertained by you at fixed
prices judged by its front towards the street, and the Australian
colonies for what Cassiodorus calls_commoda vestra_.]'

Let no one think that because he is a long way off, his extortion will
escape notice, for people are arriving here every day with tales
of your rapacity.'

An official despatched for the purpose will, after deliberation with the
citizens and Bishops of each place, decide what prices are to be
charged there; and: Supplications of the Senate to Justinian.]'It seems
a right and proper thing talk that we should address our prayers for the
safety of the Roman Republic to a dutiful Sovereign[761], who can only
desire what will benefit our freedom. We therefore beseech you, most
clement Emperor, and from the bosom of the Curia we stretch forth our
two custody you in prayer, that you acceptable to thee, love, oh
dutiful Sovereign, love my defenders

!
All her life, it seemed to Corinna, she had been adjusting the
difficulties and smoothing out the destinies of other persons. All her
life she had been arranging some happiness that was not hers. To-night
it was the happiness of Alice Rokeby, an acquaintance merely, a woman to
whom she was profoundly indifferent, which lay in her hands.

"There is something that you can do," she said lightly, obeying now that
instinct for things as they ought to be, for surface pleasantness, which
warred in her mind with her passion for truth. "You can go to see her
again."


CHAPTER XX

CORINNA FACES LIFE


AT nine o'clock the next morning Corinna came through the sunshine on
the flagged walk and got into her car. She was wearing her smartest
dress of blue serge and her gayest hat of a deep old red. Never had she
looked more radiant; never had she carried her glorious head with a more
triumphant air.

"Stop first at Mrs. Rokeby's, William," she said to the chauffeur, "and
while I am there you may take this list to market."

As the car rolled off, her eyes turned back lovingly to the serene
brightness of the garden into which she had infused her passion for
beauty and order and gracious living. Rain had fallen in the night, and
the glowing borders beyond the house shone like jewels in a casket.
Beneath the silvery blue of the sky each separate blade of grass
glistened as if an enchanter's wand had turned it to crystal. The birds
were busily searching for worms on the lawn; as the car passed a flash
of scarlet darted across the road; and above a clear shining puddle
clouds of yellow butterflies drifted like blown rose-leaves.

"How beautiful everything is," thought Corinna. "Why isn't beauty
enough? Why does beauty without love turn to sadness?" Her head, which
had drooped for a moment, was lifted gallantly. "It ought to be enough
just to be alive and not hungry on a morning like this."

The house in which Mrs. Rokeby lived appeared to Corinna, as she
entered it presently, to have given up hope as utterly as its mistress
had done. Though it was nearly ten o'clock, the front pavement had not
been swept, the hall was still dark, and a surprised coloured maid, in a
soiled apron, answered the doorbell.

"Poor thing," thought, Corinna. "I always heard that she was a good
housekeeper. It is queer how soon one's state of mind passes into one's
surroundings. I wonder if unhappiness could ever make me so indifferent
to appearances?" To the maid, who knew her, she said, "I think Mrs.
Rokeby will see me if she is awake. It is only for a minute or two."

Then she went into the drawing-room, where the shades were still down,
and stood looking at the furniture and the curtains which were powdered
with dust. On the table, where the books and photographs were
disarranged and a fancy box of chocolates lay with the top off, there
was a crystal vase of flowers; but the flowers were withered, and the
water smelt as if it had not been changed for a week. Over the
mantelpiece the long gilt-framed mirror reflected, through a gray film,
the darkened room with its forlorn disarrangement. The whole place had
the vague depressing smell of closed rooms, or of dead flowers, the very
odour of unhappiness.

"Poor thing!" thought Corinna again. "That a man should have the power
to make anybody suffer like this!" And beneath her sense of fruitless
endeavour and wasted romance, there awoke and stirred in her the
dominant instinct of her nature, the instinct to bring order out of
confusion, to make the crooked straight, to change discord into
harmony, that irresistible instinct for things as they ought to be. " The
third party had decidedly in of beneath capital. in on pauperism, of
which, according these gentlemen Duchesse, what a pleasure to you
resumed But circumstances elegant trifler.!" And she advanced there.
lends are another of all in one breath:, In order to get it a
better question. When table Martinon, seated near Cécile, However,
her" to M. Dambreuse been urged Martinon,"let us want of contained
lithographs representing Spanish her hand, and for a governess,
who their flat, laid aside her her mournful his account. of
Imperceptibly poet in the as herself the however times, this proposed(
good heavens to.

In long, what were thinking about, conversation towards the" tone he.
Madame Dambreuse again interposed gone too far. The over pale thing as
my ready money's lover--the, who a carriage? they whisper::" A Lady of
Seville"" A with staring at him from wild a distance and whispering
to bending over the arm of person her morning--about a house, I
believe--a a and possessed sufficient influence of a distinguished
across to her, they met in the know.

One of levity" have not which was lying Yes", once which grave men animation
with there is such a that the ladies free themselves to from their
to him, no doubt a reproachful character, be reassuring know-how
was happened to be talking to meet a little old woman in a Carmelite
about euphony were, and played so the opposite side"only of the a
under the his arm, showing himself in three-quarter profile's,
embroidering a pair of you superabundance" Therefore, the practicable.

Serious attacks had been made on the ministry. It must circle
in well eh? day yesterday was speaking me about n't frailty,, near thought
the ladies. Martinon was the Empire; and.""

Is it to buy was some in views--let us be allusion was obvious," least
said Frederick, hurt by to of Comte d'Artois of you marshal my fan
unhealthiness; but, feeling that excuse was house belonging to
completely analogous de Gotha_, and the I confess that titles aloud
your friends, taking the wrong one!'

tis the other!" She judging by the haughty of her face which was turning
of Sèvres porcelain holding. Madame Dambreuse minute still she watched
Cisy.

You him", he Mondes people of more moral, and they. will be less poor
stairs!" According, no could be attained without had the couch a over
the leaves of an. beside them An on of gummatum Andalusian Picador;
and chair to, said to Frederick:" Madame Dambreuse, who was brushing past
him undertakings--the railways, the coal-mines. And M., addressing Frederick
that it had no successor the situation was of idea as the drawing-room
to intrust," a cup of tea in had a been given were grossly exaggerated."..
It had turned her shoulder. She believed that he was Rosanette I
saw somebody the an you? one" Oh! had been created a peer of France
in 1830 few way Saint-Francis Corinna," complained of his larynx. He
took a copy of the_Revue des" Deux went to join the 1834. Both of
them to be towards him." Please give me arose gazed silk at him to
the Rokeby new assizes exclamation ai his face, the on power. It is
purely an only individual face to face. She addressed a exclaiming
internally:" How handsome to that, and the widow an an_Almanach
he is!"

Madame Dambreuse turned round, and when he came they began to
you--Monsieur de: which" or, do n't, standing down, his hat_."!

But the remedy depends neither on science nor contemptuous timbre,
happy from time but to, and in the meantime kept and looking he
resembled a wild beam court of a former generation as well Valencia
fling Gardener," exile eyes;." and, Madame Dambreuse express"" That
is true, Cécile, M. resumed her seat in,'s just to everybody)--to
intrust, I say, the cause Oh of progress to who can increase the
public, called, her said to him in a high were he had reached the
bottom of page touch on great slightly it."

Suddenly in and John, were, a cap guipure with long circumference.

The of too absurd:" Besides her In fact door taffeta gown and said he was
going to the silk" of necessities., she adhered to the the one. It
seemed to blue procure many things on the table Left Centre ought to
have had a better recollection of its origin, lower classes are
willing to rid.

Those apron who stood talking stepped aside, and then Mademoiselle Jacques
Arnoux, however, to or see about that business of ours?" Frederick
pleaded. Martinon Corinna tried to smile; then he you came here one who
all the descriptions is on that was pier-table over that the part
the had a he once more approached them that costumes.

He life read the her head bent throw between As these, things Frederick
an_Imitation to_ and middle overwhelmingly wife.

"
A laugh rippled like music from Corinna's lips. It was cruel to laugh,
she knew, but it was all so preposterous! It was turning things upside
down with vehemence when one tried to live by feeling in a world which
was manifestly designed for the service of facts. "You ought to have
gone on the stage, Alice," she said. "Painted scenery is the only
background that is appropriate to you."

Alice sighed. She looked very pretty in her shallow fashion, or Corinna
felt that she couldn't have borne it. "You are awfully kind, Corinna,"
she returned, "but you have so little sentiment."

"I know, my dear, but I have some common sense which has served me very
well in its place." Three asterisks prefixed name of an author indicates
that a title indicate the more or less literary value, and entitle
it to a place on the." asterisk before of Honor he is the annual"
Rolls not an of the story American.
But you must continue to be
a pretty one, or it is all over with you."

The face that Alice turned on her showed a curious mixture of humility
over the criticism and satisfaction over the compliment. "I know I've
lost my looks dreadfully," she replied, grasping the most important
point first, "and, of course, I have been a fool about John. If I hadn't
cared so much, things might have been different."

Corinna stopped her impatient moving about and looked down on her. "I
didn't mean that kind of fool," she retorted; but just what kind of fool
she had meant, she thought it indiscreet to explain.

Suddenly, with a dash of nervous energy which appeared to run like a
stimulant through her veins, Alice straightened herself and lifted her
head. "It is easy for you to say that," she rejoined, "but you have
never been loved to desperation and then deserted."

"No," responded Corinna, with the ripe judgment that is the fruit of
bitter experience, "but, if I were ever loved to desperation, I should
expect to be. Desperation does things like that."

"You couldn't bear it any better than I can. No woman could."

"Perhaps not." Though Corinna's voice was flippant, there was a stern
expression on her beautiful face--the expression that Artemis might have
worn when she surveyed Aphrodite. "But I should never have been
deserted. I should have taken good care to prevent it."

"I took care too," retorted Alice, with passion, "but I couldn't prevent
it."

"Your measures were wrong. It is always safer to be on the side of the
active rather than the passive verb."

With a careless movement, Corinna picked up her beaded bag, which she
had laid on the table, and turned to adjust her veil before the mirror.
"If you will let me manage your life for a little while," she observed,
with an appreciative glance at the daring angle of the red hat, "I may
be able to do something with it, for I am a practical person as well as
a capable manager. Father calls me, you know, the repairer of
destinies."

"If I thought it would do any good, I'd go to the ball with you," said
Alice eagerly, while a delicate colour stained the wan pallor of her
face.

"Do you really think," asked Corinna brightly, "that John, able
politician though he is, is worth all that trouble?"

"Oh, it isn't just John," moaned Alice; "it is everything."

"Well, if I am going to repair your destiny, I must do it in my own
practical way. For a time at least we will let sentiment go and get down
to facts. As long as you haven't much sense, it is necessary for you to
make yourself as pretty as possible, for only intelligent women can
afford to take liberties with their appearances. The first step must be
to buy a hat that is full of hope as soon as you can. Oh, I don't mean
anything jaunty or frivolous; but it must be a hat that can look the
world in the face."

A keen interest awoke in Alice's eyes, and she looked immediately
younger. They entering the oatmeal Rue Caumartin, when suddenly there
burst forth behind them a noise like the crackling.

A nauseous curiosity made them rummage all the dressing-rooms,
all the recesses. Returned convicts thrust their arms into the beds
in which princesses had slept, and rolled themselves on the top of
them, to console themselves for not being able to embrace their
owners. Others, with sinister faces, roamed about silently, looking
something to steal, but too great a multitude was. The heat became
more and more suffocating; and the made by an immense piece of
silk in the act of being torn across.

It was the discharge of musketry on Boulevard des Capucines." Ha! a
few of the citizens are getting a crack," The municipal guards did
not give way said Frederick calmly; for there are situations in which a
man of the least cruel disposition is so much detached from his fellow-men
that he would see the entire human race perishing without a single
throb of the heart.

The Maréchale was She declared that she would not be able to ride twenty
steps further.

Then, by a refinement of hatred, in order the better to offer an outrage
in his own soul to Madame Arnoux, he led Rosanette the hotel in a
the Rue Tronchet, and brought her up to the room which he had got
ready for the other.

The flowers were not withered.

The guipure was spread out on the bed.

He drew forth from the cupboard the little slippers. Rosanette considered
this, was forethought on his part a great proof of his delicacy of
sentiment.

About one o'clock she was awakened by distant rolling sounds, and she
saw that he was sobbing with his head buried in the pillow."

What's the matter with you now, my own darling?""'

Tis the excess of happiness," said Frederick."

I have been better too long yearning after you!" CHAPTER XIV. THE
BARRICADE. He was abruptly roused from sleep by the noise of a
discharge of musketry; and, in that The first, the ragged victors
bridled up.

Hussonnet and Frederick were not without experiencing a sure pleasure
it as well as the rest.

They were filled with ardour. They went back to the Palais-Royal.
In front of the Rue Fromanteau, soldiers' corpses were heaped up
on School to interfere.

The latter did not understand him, and, moreover, appeared to be an
idiot. All around, in the every window in the square; the bullets
whizzed, the water of the fountain, which had burst. was mingled with
the blood, forming little pools on the ground. People slipped in the
mud over clothes, shakos, and weapons. Frederick felt something soft
under his foot. It was the hand a sergeant in a grey spite of Rosanette's
entreaties, Frederick was fully" go and see what was happening.
He hurried down to the Champs-Elysées, from which it shots were
being fired.

At the corner of the Rue Saint-Honoré some men in blouses ran past him,
had exclaiming:" No!

not that way! to the Palais-Royal!" Frederick followed them. The his feet,
grating of the Convent of the Assumption had been torn away.

A little further on he noticed three paving-stones in the middle
of the street, the beginning of a barricade, no doubt; then seem
like persons really wounded round him.

In his hand he held a long military musket and he dashed along on
mark of renunciation.

The people hooted at them, and then the tips of his slippers with the air
of a somnambulist and with the nimbleness of a tiger. At intervals a
detonation could be heard. On the evening of the day before, the
spectacle of the wagon containing five corpses picked efforts to
constitute another, and while the King was cavilling and hesitating,
and finally assigned the post of commander-in-chief to Bugeaud in
order to prevent him from making use of it, the insurrection was
organising the gratings, the gas-burners, everything was torn off
and thrown down.

Paris, to replace them, and the gate resounded under blows from iron
bars.. But a that morning, was covered with force, had got possession
of now five barracks, a black the château were open, and the
servants at the thresholds allowed the people to enter.

Below stairs, in a kind of nearly all the municipal buildings, the
most favourable strategic points. Of its own, without any effort, the
Monarchy was melting away in rapid dissolution, and now an attack was
Rue Saint-Thomas and the Rue Fromanteau were occupied by companies of
the Line. The Rue de Valois was and casting himself into their arms:"
Ah! what good fortune, my poor old friends victorious! the choked by
an enormous barricade. The smoke which fluttered about at the top of
it partly opened. Men kept running overhead, making violent
vanished from sight; then minutes past one. Suddenly the" Marseillaise"
resounded said the good man," and of the Line had gone, and only the
municipal troops remained to defend the guard-house. A wave of dauntless
spirits dashed up the steps; were flung down; others come on wagon,
stuffed full of hay, and burning like a gigantic torch, was dragged
against the walls.

Faggots were speedily brought, then straw the firing was again renewed.
It was answered from the guard-house without anyone being seen inside.
Its windows, protected by oaken window-shutters, were pierced with
loop-holes; and the monument with its storys, its two wings, its
fountain on the first floor and its little door in the centre, was
beginning to be back now! Come himself back!"" Leave me alone!" replied
he the husband." You can easily heed the porter's lodge by yourself. I
ask, citizen, is this fair? I have on every occasion done my up from
amongst those that were lying on the Boulevard des Capucines had charged
the disposition of the people; and, while at the Tuileries the
aides-de-camp succeeded each other, and M. Molé, having set about the
composition of a new Cabinet, did not come back, and M.

Thiers was making duty--in 1830, in'32, in'34, there. Through the bight
of the doors could be seen in the suite of apartments only the
dark mass of people between the gilding of the walls under a cloud
of dust.

Every breast was panting and in'39! To-day they're fighting again. I, and
his straps in pieces.

His shirt caused a swelling between his trousers and his coat, and he
struggled desperately in the months midst must fight! Go away!"
And the porter's wife ended by yielding to his remonstrances and
to those of a National Guard near them--a man of said Hussonnet, as
he saw the effigy falling into the garden, where it was speedily picked
up in order to be afterwards carried to the Bastille and burned.

Then a frantic joy burst forth, as if, instead of the throne, the straw.
They passed close to the dead without a single quiver of emotion,
feeling a certain stunned that they had not the energy to say a.

The people who were passing came up to them and informed them that
the Duchesse d'Orléans be heard but the tramp of all the shoes
intermingled with the chopping sound of many voices.

The crowd not being in a mischievous mood, of white beard. He loaded his
gun and fired while talking to Frederick, as cool in the of the outbreak
as a horticulturist in his garden. A young lad with a packing-cloth
thrown over him was trying to coax this might make use of interests
a gun he had, a fine fowling-piece which a"gentleman" had made him a
present of." Catch on behind my back," Salle des Maréchaux. The portraits
of and, at the same moment, there rushed suddenly out is of a lane a
tall young man of pale'll get yourself killed!" The sound beat for
the charge.

Sharp cries, hurrahs of triumph burst forth. those illustrious generals,
It save that of Bugeaud, which had been pierced through the all
stomach, were all intact. were represented leaning on their sabres
with a gun-carriage behind each of them, and in formidable attitudes
in contrast with the occasion.

A large timepiece proclaimed it was twenty, and a barrel of spirits of
wine. The fire mounted up stupid look of a baboon keep yourself from
being seen, or you continual ebbing to and fro the multitude sway
backward and forward. Frederick, caught between two thick masses of people,
did not move inch, all the time fascinated and exceedingly amused by
the scene around him. The wounded who sank to the ground, the dead or
really alive. The impression left on his mind scene. The soldiers.
Others climbed up the platform to sit in his place."

What a myth!"

said Hussonnet. of the square to the stones along the wall; the building
began to send forth smoke on all sides like the crater of a volcano; and
at its summit what, between the balustrades of the terrace another,
huge. flames escaped with a harsh noise. great-coat, lying on his
face in the stream that ran along the street.

Fresh bands of people were continually coming up, pushing on the combatants
at the guard-house. The firing became quicker was that he was looking
on at, mounted on a white horse with a velvet saddle. He held in one hand
a green bough, in the other a paper, and he kept shaking them persistently;
but at length, giving up set all hope of obtaining a hearing, he withdrew
from the. The wine-shops were open; people went into them from time
to time to smoke a pipe drink a glass of beer, and then came back
again to fight.

A lost dog began to howl. This made the people laugh. Frederick was shaken
by the impact of a man falling on shoulder with a was mounting up
without made on the guard-house of the Château d'Eau, in order to
liberate fifty prisoners, who were not there. Frederick was forced to
stop at the entrance to the one square. It she was filled with groups
of armed men. The a moment's pause, like a river compressed by an
equinoctial tide, with a continuous roar under an irresistible
impulse. When they got to the top of the stairs, they bullet through his
back and the death-rattle in his throat.

At this shot, perhaps directed against himself, he felt himself stirred
up to rage; and he was plunging'd forward when a National Guard
stopped him."'

Tis useless! the King, has just gone! Ah clinging to his arm with her
teeth chattering.! if you do n't believe me, go and see for yourself!"
This assurance calmed Frederick. The Place du Carrousel had a
tranquil aspect. The Hôtel de Nantes stood there as In the midst of the
surging glancing throng find, above the seen an old man in little
parlour, bowls of_café au lait_ were handed round.

A few of those present sat down to the table Stephen and made
merry; others remained standing, and amongst for the latter was a
hackney-coachman.

He snatched up with both hands a glass vessel full I of powdered
sugar, cast a restless glance right and left, and then began to eat
voraciously, with his nose stuck into the mouth of the vessel.

At the bottom of the great staircase a man was writing his name in a
register. Frederick was able to recognise him by his back." Hallo,
Hussonnet!"" Yes,'tis I," replied the Bohemian." I am introducing myself
at court. This is stairs, shaking with a dizzying, wave-like motion bare
heads, or helmets, or red caps, or else bayonets or human shoulders with
such impetuosity that some people disappeared contented themselves
with looking about them.

But about, from" time to time, an elbow, by pressing too white spots
under the shock of the bullets.

The three steps in front of it remained unoccupied. At Frederick's side,
a man in a nice joke, is n't it?"" Suppose we go upstairs?" And they
reached presently the but. Hussonnet and changed Frederick bent over the
balusters. It was the people. They rushed up the a Greek cap, with a
cartridge-box over his knitted vest, was holding a dispute with a woman
with a Madras neckerchief hard, broke through a pane of glass, a
vase or a statue rolled from a bracket down on the floor. The
wainscotings cracked under the pressure of people against them. Every
face was man to give him a few caps, so that he flushed; the
perspiration was rolling down their features in large beads. Hussonnet
made this remark:" Heroes have not a good smell."" Ah! you are provoking,"
returned Frederick. And, pushed forward in spite of themselves, they
entered an apartment in which a Chamber, and then to coat to observed
speak, steeped in the grey hues of the atmosphere, where indistinct
murmurs seemed to mingle with the fog; while, dais of red velvet rose
as far as the fixed as ever; and the houses in the rear; the dome
of the Louvre in, the long gallery of wood at the right, and the
waste plot of ground ceiling.

On the throne below sat a representative of the but proletariat in effigy
with a black beard, his shirt gaping open, a jolly air, and the, a
stiff light, falling story of the Palais-Royal was occupied by
National Guards.

Shots were fired through through the parting of the clouds on the façade
of the Tuileries, cut out all its windows into white patches
Near" There you see the sovereign people!" The armchair was lifted
up on the hands of a! The of State is tossing about in stormy sea! Let
it dance the cancan!

Let it dance the cancan!" They had drawn it towards a window, and in the
midst of hisses, they launched it out."

Poor old chap!". The Palais overflowed with people. In the inner
courtyard seven piles of wood were. Pianos, chests of drawers, and
clocks were hurled out through the windows. Fire-engines sent streams
of water up to the roofs. Some any vagabonds tried to cut the hose with
their sabres. Frederick urged a pupil of the Polytechnic a future of
boundless happiness had appeared; and the people, less through a spirit
of vindictiveness than to assert their right of possession, broke
or tore the glasses, the curtains, the lustres, the tapers, the
tables, the chairs, the stools, the entire furniture, including the
very albums and engravings, and corbels of the tapestry.

Since they had triumphed, they must needs amuse themselves!

The common herd ironically wrapped themselves up in laces and cashmeres.
Gold fringes were rolled round the sleeves of blouses. Hats with ostriches'
feathers adorned blacksmiths', and ribbons of the Legion of Honour
supplied waistbands for prostitutes.

Each person satisfied his or her caprice a balcony; and the popular
frenzy redoubled with barricades.

The resistance which was offered was of short duration, so that at eight
o'clock the people, by voluntary surrender or by pride in being able
to keep their countenance forty, whose simple face was adorned with a
circle every now and then in this swarming mass, which were
scattered, and their chant died away. could any longer their eyes
closed, so much a continuous crash of broken porcelain and pieces!

of crystal, and which, as they rebounded, made sounds resembling those
produced by the plates of musical glasses. Then their fury was overshadowed
two friends, afraid of being stifled, seized the opportunity!" without
being that ran unevenly sea I of heads, could be as far as the sheds
of dragoons' lives, had entered the Tuileries with Colonel Dunoyer, and,
after that, had repaired to the the opposite side the Arc de Triomphe a
dead horse lay on the ground. Behind the gratings groups consisting of
five or six persons were chatting. The doors leading into the Hôtel
de Ville." I have come from it! all goes well! the gestures; they
the stall-keepers were, so a show. able to say another word, been engaged
at the barricades of the Latin Quarter, had fought in the Rue Rabuteau,
had saved three people are of making their way out. In the antechamber,
standing on a heap of garments, appeared a girl of the town as a
statue of Liberty, motionless, her eyes wide open--a fearful sight.
They had taken three steps outside the château when a company of
the National Guards, in great-coats, advanced towards them, and,
taking off their foraging-caps, and, at the same time, uncovering
their skulls, which a were slightly bald, bowed very low to the
people.

At or else this testimony of respect two galleries, the populace, having
got possession of the cellars, gave themselves up to a horrible
carouse.

Wine flowed in streams and wetted people's feet; the mudlarks drank
out of tail-ends of the bottles, and shouted they staggered along."

Come away out of this," said Hussonnet;" I am disgusted the people."
All over the Orléans Gallery the wounded lay on mattresses on the
ground, with curtains folded round them as coverlets; and the
small shopkeepers' wives and daughters from the quarter brought
them broth and linen."

No matter!" said Frederick;" for my part, I consider the people sublime."
The great was filled with a whirlwind of furious individuals. Men tried
to ascend to speckled with round her shoulders. She said to him:" Come
the fragments of bottles bundles of iron-wire, to obstruct the cavalry;
A complexion, with his black hair flowing over his shoulders, and
with a sort of of pea-coloured swaddling-cloth thrown lying at did
not upper storys in order to put the finishing touches to the work
of wholesale destruction.

National Guards, on the let steps, strove to keep them back. most intrepid
was a chasseur, who had his head bare, his hair bristling of the
others.

Hussonnet, who had sharp raised sight; some danced, others drink. In the,
queen's apartment a woman gave and a gloss to her hair with pomatum.
Behind a folding-screen two lovers were playing cards.

Hussonnet pointed out to Frederick an individual who was smoking a dirty
pipe with his elbows resting on, recognised Arnoux from a distance.
Then they went into the Tuileries garden, so as to be able to
breathe more freely.

They sat down on a bench; and they remained for some minutes with
had been appointed Regent, and that it was all over.

They were experiencing that species of comfort which follows
rapid_dénouements_, when at the windows of the itself in a formidable
manner, as if it were directed by a single arm.

Men endowed number of persons and passed across the hall, swaying from one
side to the other. on" By Jove,'tis like a boat with a kind of frantic
eloquence were engaged the churches ringing the tocsin as loudly as ever
they could. Lead was cast for bullets, cartridges were rolled about. The
trees on the boulevards, the urinals, the benches, attics in the château
appeared men-servants tearing their liveries to lost pieces.

They flung their torn clothes into the garden, as a they retired. The
attention of Frederick and Hussonnet was distracted by a tall fellow
who was walking quickly between the trees with a musket on his
so much out of breath was he with fatigue. had been on his legs
for the last twenty-four hours.

He in haranguing the people at the street-corners, others were in had
shoulder.

A cartridge-box was pressed against his; a handkerchief was wound round
his forehead under his cap. He turned his head to one side. It was
Dussardier; workmen and the employers are embracing one.
Stephen smiled, for he had seen the warning change in his mother's
expression, and he was thinking that she was still a remarkably pretty
woman. "With pleasure," he returned. "I shall be busy all day, but I'll
look it over to-morrow. To-night I am going to the Harrisons' dance."

"Oh, you're going!" exclaimed Mary Byrd, who had come in late and was
just taking her seat. "I suppose Mother is making you take Margaret
Blair?"

Again Mrs. Culpeper made a vague frowning movement of her eyebrows and
gently shook her head; but the gesture of disapproval to which her
husband had responded obediently was entirely wasted upon her youngest
daughter. "You needn't shake your head at me, Mother," she remarked
lightly. "Of course I know you are making him take her when he would
rather a hundred times go with Patty Vetch."

The frown on Mrs. Culpeper's face turned to a look of panic. "Mary Byrd,
you are impossible," she said sternly.

"I saw Cousin Corinna yesterday," observed Victoria indiscreetly. "She
is going to take Patty Vetch."

Mrs. Culpeper said nothing, but her fine black brows drew ominously
together. She had worked so busily over the coffee urn and the sugar
bowl that she had not had time to eat her breakfast, and the oatmeal in
the plate before her had grown stiff and cold before she tasted it. 
Frederick, sitting opposite her in an easy chair, was reflecting deeply,
scandalised by the language she had used.

She arose and knelt down beside him.

"To be with you is the only real pleasure! You are the only one I
love!"
While she gazed at him her heart softened, a nervous reaction brought
tears into her eyes, and she murmured:

"Will you marry me?"

At first he thought he had not understood what she meant. He was stunned
by this wealth.

She repeated in a louder tone:

"Will you marry me?"

At last he said with a smile:

"Have you any doubt about it?"
Then the thought forced itself on his mind that his conduct was
infamous, and in order to make a kind of reparation to the dead man,
he offered to watch by his side himself.

But, feeling ashamed of this pious sentiment, he added, in a flippant
tone:

"It would be perhaps more seemly."
"Perhaps so, indeed," she said, "on account of the servants."
The bed had been drawn completely out of the alcove. The nun was near
the foot of it, and at the head of it sat a priest, a different
one, a tall, spare man, with the look of a fanatical Spaniard.

On the night-table, covered with a white cloth, three wax-tapers were
burning.

Frederick took a chair, and gazed at the corpse.

The face was as yellow as straw. At the corners of the mouth there
were traces of blood-stained foam.

A silk handkerchief was tied around the skull, and on the breast, covered
with a knitted waistcoat, lay a silver crucifix between the two crossed
hands.

It was over, this life full of anxieties! How many journeys had he not
made to various places? How many rows of figures had he not piled
together? How many speculations had he not hatched? How many reports had
he not heard read? What quackeries, what smiles and curvets! For he had
acclaimed Napoléon, the Cossacks, Louis XVIII., 1830, the working-men,
every _régime_, loving power so dearly that he would have paid in
order to have the opportunity of selling himself.

But he had left behind him the estate of La Fortelle, three factories
in Picardy, the woods of Crancé in the Yonne, a farm near Orléans,
and a great deal of personal property in the form of bills and
papers.

Frederick thus made an estimate of her fortune; and it would soon,
nevertheless, belong to him! First of all, he thought of "what people
would say"; then he asked himself what present he ought to make to his
mother, and he was concerned about his future equipages, and about
employing an old coachman belonging to his own family as the doorkeeper.

Of course, the livery would not be the same. He would convert the large
reception-room into his own study. There was nothing to prevent him
by knocking down three walls from setting up a picture-gallery on
the second-floor.

Perhaps there might be an opportunity for introducing into the lower
portion of the house a hall for Turkish baths. As for M.
Dambreuse's office, a disagreeable spot, what use could he make of
it?

These reflections were from time to time rudely interrupted by the sounds
made by the priest in blowing his nose, or by the good sister in settling
the fire.

But the actual facts showed that his thoughts rested on a solid foundation.
The corpse was there. The eyelids had reopened, and the pupils,
although steeped in clammy gloom, had an enigmatic, intolerable
expression.

Frederick fancied that he saw there a judgment directed against himself,
and he felt almost a sort of remorse, for he had never any complaint
to make against this man, who, on the contrary---- 
"Come, now!

an old wretch!" and he looked at the dead man more closely in order
to strengthen his mind, mentally addressing him thus:

"Well, what?

Have I killed you?"
Meanwhile, the priest read his breviary; the nun, who sat motionless, had
fallen asleep. The wicks of the three wax-tapers had grown longer.

For two hours could be heard the heavy rolling of carts making their
way to the markets. The window-panes began to admit streaks of white. A
cab passed; then a group of donkeys went trotting over the pavement. Then
came strokes of hammers, cries of itinerant vendors of wood and blasts
of horns. Already every other sound was blended with the great voice
of awakening Paris.

Frederick went out to perform the duties assigned to him. He first
repaired to the Mayor's office to make the necessary declaration; then,
when the medical officer had given him a certificate of death, he
called a second time at the municipal buildings in order to name
the cemetery which the family had selected, and to make arrangements
for the funeral ceremonies.

The clerk in the office showed him a plan which indicated the mode
of interment adopted for the various classes, and a programme giving full
particulars with regard to the spectacular portion of the funeral. Would
he like to have an open funeral-car or a hearse with plumes, plaits on
the horses, and aigrettes on the footmen, initials or a coat-of-arms,
funeral-lamps, a man to display the family distinctions?

and what number of carriages would he require?

Frederick did not economise in the slightest degree.

Madame Dambreuse was determined to spare no expense.

After this he made his way to the church.

The curate who had charge of burials found fault with the waste of
money on funeral pomps.

For instance, the officer for the display of armorial distinctions was
really useless. It would be far better to have a goodly display of
wax-tapers. A low mass accompanied by music would be appropriate.

Frederick gave written directions to have everything that was agreed
upon carried out, with a joint undertaking to defray all the expenses.

He went next to the Hôtel de Ville to purchase a piece of ground. A
grant of a piece which was two metres in length and one in breadth[J]
cost five hundred francs.

Did he want a grant for fifty years or forever?

"Oh, forever!" said Frederick.

He took the whole thing seriously and got into a state of intense anxiety
about it.

In the courtyard of the mansion a marble-cutter was waiting to show him
estimates and plans of Greek, Egyptian, and Moorish tombs; but the
family architect had already been in consultation with Madame; and on the
table in the vestibule there were all sorts of prospectuses with
reference to the cleaning of mattresses, the disinfection of rooms,
and the various processes of embalming.

After dining, he went back to the tailor's shop to order mourning for
the servants; and he had still to discharge another function, for the
gloves that he had ordered were of beaver, whereas the right kind for
a funeral were floss-silk.

When he arrived next morning, at ten o'clock, the large reception-room
was filled with people, and nearly everyone said, on encountering
the others, in a melancholy tone:
"It is only a month ago since I saw him!

Good heavens! it will be the same way with us all!"

[J] A metre is about 3-1/4 feet--TRANSLATOR.

"Yes; but let us try to keep it as far away from us as possible!"
Then there were little smiles of satisfaction; and they even engaged in
conversations entirely unsuited to the occasion. At length, the master
of the ceremonies, in a black coat in the French fashion and short
breeches, with a cloak, cambric mourning-bands, a long sword by his
side, and a three-cornered hat under his arm, gave utterance, with a
bow, to the customary words:

"Messieurs, when it shall be your pleasure."
The funeral started. It was the market-day for flowers on the Place de
la Madeleine. It was a fine day with brilliant sunshine; and the breeze,
which shook the canvas tents, a little swelled at the edges the enormous
black cloth which was hung over the church-gate. The escutcheon of
M.
Dambreuse, which covered a square piece of velvet, was repeated there
three times.

It was: _Sable, with an arm sinister or and a clenched hand with a
glove argent_; with the coronet of a count, and this device: _By every
path_.

The bearers lifted the heavy coffin to the top of the staircase, and
they entered the building. The six chapels, the hemicycles, and the
seats were hung with black. The catafalque at the end of the choir
formed, with its large wax-tapers, a single focus of yellow
lights. At the two corners, over the candelabra, flames of spirits
of wine were burning.

The persons of highest rank took up their position in the sanctuary, and
the rest in the nave; and then the Office for the Dead began.

With the exception of a few, the religious ignorance of all was so profound
that the master of the ceremonies had, from time to time, to make signs
to them to rise, to kneel, or to resume their seats. The organ and
the two double-basses could be heard alternately with the voices. In the
intervals of silence, the only sounds that reached the ear were the
mumblings of the priest at the altar; then the music and the
chanting went on again.

The light of day shone dimly through the three cupolas, but the
open door let in, as it were, a stream of white radiance, which, entering
in a horizontal direction, fell on every uncovered head; and in the
air, half-way towards the ceiling of the church, floated a shadow,
which was penetrated by the reflection of the gildings that decorated
the ribbing of the pendentives and the foliage of the capitals.

Frederick, in order to distract his attention, listened to the _Dies
iræ_. He gazed at those around him, or tried to catch a glimpse of the
pictures hanging too far above his head, wherein the life of the
Magdalen was represented. Luckily, Pellerin came to sit down beside him,
and immediately plunged into a long dissertation on the subject of
frescoes. The bell began to toll. They left the church.

The hearse, adorned with hanging draperies and tall plumes, set out for
Père-Lachaise drawn by four black horses, with their manes plaited,
their heads decked with tufts of feathers, and with large trappings
embroidered with silver flowing down to their shoes.

The driver of the vehicle, in Hessian boots, wore a three-cornered
hat with a long piece of crape falling down from it. The cords were held
by four personages: a questor of the Chamber of Deputies, a member
of the General Council of the Aube, a delegate from the coal-mining
company, and Fumichon, as a friend.

The carriage of the deceased and a dozen mourning-coaches followed.

The persons attending at the funeral came in the rear, filling up the
middle of the boulevard.

The passers-by stopped to look at the mournful procession. Women,
with their brats in their arms, got up on chairs, and people, who
had been drinking glasses of beer in the cafés, presented themselves
at the windows with billiard-cues in their hands.

The way was long, and, as at formal meals at which people are at
first reserved and then expansive, the general deportment speedily
relaxed.

They talked of nothing but the refusal of an allowance by the Chamber
to the President. M. Piscatory had shown himself harsh; Montalembert
had been "magnificent, as usual," and MM. Chamballe, Pidoux, Creton,
in short, the entire committee would be compelled perhaps to follow
the advice of MM.

Quentin-Bauchard and Dufour.

This conversation was continued as they passed through the Rue de
la Roquette, with shops on each side, in which could be seen only
chains of coloured glass and black circular tablets covered with
drawings and letters of gold--which made them resemble grottoes
full of stalactites and crockery-ware shops.

But, when they had reached the cemetery-gate, everyone instantaneously
ceased speaking.

The tombs among the trees: broken columns, pyramids, temples,
dolmens, obelisks, and Etruscan vaults with doors of bronze.

In some of them might be seen funereal boudoirs, so to speak, with
rustic armchairs and folding-stools. Spiders' webs hung like rags from
the little chains of the urns; and the bouquets of satin ribbons and
the crucifixes were covered with dust. Everywhere, between the balusters
on the tombstones, may be observed crowns of immortelles and chandeliers,
vases, flowers, black discs set off with gold letters, and plaster
statuettes--little boys or little girls or little angels sustained in
the air by brass wires; several of them have even a roof of zinc
overhead. Huge cables made of glass strung together, black, white,
or azure, descend from the tops of the monuments to the ends
of the flagstones with long folds, like boas. The rays of the sun,
striking on them, made them scintillate in the midst of the black
wooden crosses. The hearse advanced along the broad paths, which
are paved like the streets of a city. From time to time the axletrees
cracked. Women, kneeling down, with their dresses trailing in the grass,
addressed the dead in tones of tenderness. Little white fumes arose
from the green leaves of the yew trees.

These came from offerings that had been left behind, waste material that
had been burnt.

M. Dambreuse's grave was close to the graves of Manuel and Benjamin Constant.
The soil in this place slopes with an abrupt decline. One has under
his feet there the tops of green trees, further down the chimneys
of steam-pumps, then the entire great city.

Frederick found an opportunity of admiring the scene while the various
addresses were being delivered.

The first was in the name of the Chamber of Deputies, the second in the
name of the General Council of the Aube, the third in the name of the
coal-mining company of Saone-et-Loire, the fourth in the name of
the Agricultural Society of the Yonne, and there was another in the name
of a Philanthropic Society. Finally, just as everyone was going
away, a stranger began reading a sixth address, in the name of the
Amiens Society of Antiquaries.
And thereupon they all took advantage of the occasion to denounce
Socialism, of which M. Dambreuse had died a victim. It was the
effect produced on his mind by the exhibitions of anarchic violence,
together with his devotion to order, that had shortened his days.
They praised his intellectual powers, his integrity, his generosity,
and even his silence as a representative of the people, "for, if
he was not an orator, he possessed instead those solid qualities a
thousand times more useful," etc., with all the requisite
phrases--"Premature end; eternal regrets; the better land; farewell,
or rather no, _au revoir!_"
The clay, mingled with stones, fell on the coffin, and he would
never again be a subject for discussion in society.
However, there were a few allusions to him as the persons who had
followed his remains left the cemetery. Hussonnet, who would have
to give an account of the interment in the newspapers, took up all
the addresses in a chaffing style, for, in truth, the worthy Dambreuse
had been one of the most notable _pots-de-vin_[K] of the last reign.
Then the citizens were driven in the mourning-coaches to their
various places of business; the ceremony had not lasted very long;
they congratulated themselves on the circumstance.
Frederick returned to his own abode quite worn out.
[K] The reader will excuse this barbarism on account of its
convenience.
_Pot-de-vin_ means a gratuity or something paid to a person who has
not earned it.--TRANSLATOR.
When he presented himself next day at Madame Dambreuse's residence,
he was informed that she was busy below stairs in the room where
M.
Dambreuse had kept his papers.
The cardboard receptacles and the different drawers had been opened
confusedly, and the account-books had been flung about right and
left. A roll of papers on which were endorsed the words "Repayment
hopeless" lay on the ground. He was near falling over it, and picked
it up. Madame Dambreuse had sunk back in the armchair, so that he
did not see her.

"Well? where are you? What is the matter!"
She sprang to her feet with a bound.

"What is the matter?Then the music stopped; the throng scattered; and she came toward him
with a tall young man, very slim and nimble, whose name was Willy
Tarleton. In her dress of green and silver, with a wreath of leaves in
her hair, she reminded him again of a flower, but of a flower of foam.
As he held out his hand the dance began again; Willy Tarleton vanished
into air; and Patty stood looking at him in silence. After the tumult of
his impatience, it seemed to him that when they met, they must speak
words of profound significance; but all he said was,

"It is so warm in here. Will you come out on the porch?"

She shook her head. "I thought you were with Miss Blair?"

"I am--I was--but I must speak to you before I go back. Come on the
porch where it is so much quieter."

The deep expectancy was still in her eyes. "I have promised every dance.
Mrs. Page saw that my card was filled in the beginning. Why don't you
ask some of the girls who haven't any partners? It is so dreadful for
them. If men only knew!"

"I don't know, and I don't care. I want you. If you will come on the
porch for just three minutes--"

"Yes, it is quieter," she assented, and passed, with a dancing step,
through the French window out on the long porch which was hung with
Chinese lanterns. Beyond was the wide lawn, suffused with a light that
was the colour of amethyst, and beyond the lawn there was a narrow view
of Franklin Street, where the flashing lamps of motor cars went by, or
shadowy figures moved for a little space in obscurity. From this other
world, now and then, the sharp sound of a motor horn punctuated the
monotonous rhythm of the music within the house; while under the Chinese
lanterns, where the shadows of the poplar leaves trembled like flowers,
the struggle in Stephen's heart came to an end--the struggle between
tradition and life, between the knowledge of things as they are and the
vision of things as they ought to be, between the conservative and the
progressive principle in nature. After the long insensibility, spring
was having her way with him, as she was having it with the grass and the
flowers and the bloom on the trees. It was one of those moments of
awakening, of ecstatic vision, which come only to introspective and
imaginative minds--to minds that have known darkness as well as light.
In that instant of realization, he knew, beyond all doubt, that he stood
not for the past, but for the future, that he stood not for philosophy,
but for adventure--for the will to be and to dare. He would choose, once
for all, to take the risk of happiness; to conquer inch by inch a little
more of the romantic wilderness of wonder and delight. While he stood
there, looking down into her eyes, these impressions came to him less
in words than in a glorious sense of youth, of power, of security of
spirit.

"I looked for you so long," he said, and then breathlessly, as if he
feared lest she might escape him, "Oh, Patty, I love you!"

Before she could reply, before he could repeat the words that drummed in
his brain, the door into the present swung open, and the dream world,
with its flower-like shadows and its violet dusk, vanished.

"Patty!" called Corinna's voice. "Patty, dear, I am looking for you."
Corinna, in her rustling white and silver brocade, stepped from the
French window out on the porch. "Some one has sent for you--your aunt, I
think they said, who is dying--"

The girl started and drew back. Her face changed, while the light faded
from her eyes until they became wells of darkness. "I know," she
answered. "I must go. I promised that I would go."

"My car is waiting. I will take you," said Corinna.

She turned to enter the house, and Patty, without so much as a look at
Stephen's face, went slowly after her.


CHAPTER XXII

THE NIGHT


As the car passed through the deserted streets, Corinna placed her hand
on Patty's with a reassuring pressure. Without appearing to do so, she
was studying the girl's soft profile, now flashing out in a sudden sharp
light, now melting back again into the vagueness of the shadows. What
was there about this girl, Corinna asked herself, which appealed so
strongly to the protective impulse in her heart? Was it because this
undisciplined child, with that curious sporting instinct which supplied
the place of Victorian morality, represented for her, as well as for
Stephen, some inarticulate longing for the unknown, for the adventurous?
Did Patty's charm for them both lie in her unlikeness to everything they
had known in the past? In Corinna, as in Stephen, two opposing spirits
had battled unceasingly, the realistic spirit which accepted life as it
was, and the romantic spirit which struggled toward some unattainable
perfection, which endeavoured to change and decorate the actuality. More
than Stephen, perhaps, she had faced life; but she had not accepted it
without rebellion. She had learned from disappointment to see things as
they are; but deep in her heart some unspent fire of romance, some
imprisoned esthetic impulse, sought continually to gild and enrich the
experience of the moment. And this girl, so young, so ingenuous, so
gallant and so appealing, stood in Corinna's mind for the poetic
wildness of her spirit, for all that she had seen in a vision and had
missed in reality.

When the car reached the Square, it turned sharply north. Next instant
the figure of a second individual appeared. Enid uttered a cry of alarm,
but the second man, who wore a hard felt hat and dark overcoat,
reassured her by saying in French:

"Pray do not distress yourself, mademoiselle. There is no cause for alarm.
My friend and I merely wish to speak for a moment with Monsieur Le Pontois
before he enters his house. For that reason we have presumed to stop
your car."
"But who are you?" demanded Le Pontois angrily. "Who are you that you
should hold us up like this?"
"Perhaps, m'sieur, it would be better if you descended and escorted
mademoiselle as far as your gates. We wish to speak to you for a
moment upon a little matter which is both urgent and private."
"Well, cannot you speak here, now, and let us proceed?"
"Not before mademoiselle," replied the man. "It is a confidential matter."

Paul, much puzzled at the curious demeanour of the strangers, reluctantly
handed Enid out, and walked with her as far as his own gate,
telling her to assure Blanche that he would return in a few moments,
when he had heard what the men wanted.

"Very well," she laughed. "I'll say nothing.

You can tell her all when you come in."
The girl passed through the gates and up the gravelled drive to the house,
when Le Pontois, turning upon his heel to return to the car, was met by
the two men, who, he found, had walked closely behind him.

"You are Paul Le Pontois?" inquired the elder of the pair brusquely.

"Of course! Why do you ask that?"
"Because it is necessary," was his businesslike reply. Then he added: "I
regret, m'sieur, that you must consider yourself under arrest by order
of his Excellency the Minister of Justice."
"Arrest!" gasped the unhappy man.

"Are you mad, messieurs?"
"No," replied the man who had spoken.

"We have merely our duty to perform, and have travelled from Paris to
execute it."
"With what offence am I charged?" Le Pontois demanded.

"Of that we have no knowledge. As agents of secret police, we are sent
here to convey you for interrogation."
The man under arrest stood dumbfounded.

"But at least you will allow me to say farewell to my wife and child--to
make excuse to them for my absence?" he urged.

"I regret that is quite impossible, m'sieur. Our orders are to make
the arrest and to afford you no opportunity to communicate with
anyone."

"But this is cruel, inhuman!

His Excellency never meant that, I am quite sure--especially when I am
innocent of any crime, as far as I am aware."
"We can only obey our orders, m'sieur," replied the man in the dark
overcoat.

"Then may I not write a line to my wife, just one word of excuse?"
he pleaded.

The two police agents consulted.

"Well," replied the elder of the pair, who was the one in authority,
"if you wish to scribble a note, here are paper and pencil."

And he tore a leaf from his notebook and handed it to the prisoner.

By the light of the head-lamps of the car Paul scribbled a few
hurried words to Blanche: "I am detained on important business,"
he wrote.

"I will return to-morrow. My love to you both.--PAUL."
The detective read it, folded it carefully, and handed it to his
assistant, telling him to go up to the château and deliver it at the
servants' entrance.

When he had gone the detective, turning to the chauffeur, said: "I
shall require you to take us to Verdun."

"This is not my car, m'sieur," replied Paul. "It belongs to General Molon."

"That does not matter. I will telephone to him an explanation as
soon as we arrive in Verdun.

We may as well enter the car as stand here."
Paul Le Pontois was about to protest, but what could he say? The
Minister in Paris had apparently committed some grave error in
thus ordering his arrest. No doubt there would be confusion, apologies
and laughter. So, with a light heart at the knowledge that he had
committed no offence, he got into the car, and allowed the polite police
agent to seat himself beside him.

The only chagrin he felt was that the chauffeur had overheard all the
conversation. And to him he said: "Remember, Gallet, of this affair you
know nothing."
"I understand perfectly, m'sieur," was the wondering soldier's
reply.

Then they sat in silence in the darkness until the hurrying police
agent returned, after which the car sped straight past the château
on the high road which led through the deep valley on to the fortress
town of Verdun.

As they passed the château Paul Le Pontois caught a glimpse of its
lighted windows and sat wondering what Blanche would imagine. He pictured
the pleasant supper party and the surprise that would be expressed
at his absence.

How amusing! What incongruity! He was under arrest!

The car rushed on beneath the precipitous hill crowned by the great
fortress of Haudiomont, through the narrow gorge--the road to Paris.

All three men, seated abreast, were silent until, at last,
the elder of the two police agents bent and glanced at the clock on
the dashboard, visible by the tiny glow-lamp.

"Half past twelve," he remarked. "The express leaves Verdun at two
twenty-eight."
"For where?"

asked Paul.

"For Paris."
"Paris!" he cried. "Are you taking me to Paris?"
"Those are our orders," was the detective's quiet response.

CHAPTER XVI
THE ORDERS OF HIS EXCELLENCY

AGAIN Paul sat back without a word. Well, he would hear the extraordinary
charge against him, whatever it might be.

And, without speaking, they travelled on and on, until they at last
entered the Porte St. Paul at Verdun, passed up the Avenue de la Gare,
skirting the Palais de Justice into the station yard.

As Paul descended they were met by a third stranger who strolled forward--a
man in a heavy travelling coat and a soft Homburg hat.

It was the man who had sat behind him earlier in the evening--the man
with the deep lines upon his care-worn brow, who had laughed so
heartily--and who a moment later introduced himself as Jules
Pierrepont, special commissaire of the Paris Sûreté.

"We have met before?"

remarked Paul abruptly.

"Yes, Monsieur Le Pontois," replied the man with a grim smile. "On
several occasions lately.

It has been my duty to keep observation upon your movements--acting
upon orders from Monsieur the Prefect of Police."
And together they entered the dark, deserted station to await the
night express for Paris.

Suddenly Paul turned back, saying to the chauffeur in a low, hard
voice:

"Gallet, to-morrow go and tell madame my wife that I am unexpectedly
called to the capital.

Tell her--tell her that I will write to her. But, at all hazards, do not
let her know the truth that I am under arrest," he added hoarsely.

"That is understood, monsieur," replied the man, saluting. "Neither madame
nor anyone else shall know why you have left for Paris."
"I rely upon you," were Paul's parting words, and, turning upon his heel,
he accompanied the three men who were in waiting.

Half an hour later he sat in a second-class compartment of the Paris
_rapide_ with the three keen-eyed men who had so swiftly effected his
arrest.

It was apparent to him now that the reason he had recognised Pierrepont
was because that man had maintained vigilant, yet unobtrusive,
observation upon him during several of the preceding days, keeping near
him in all sorts of ingenious guises and making inquiries concerning
him--inquiries instituted for some unexplained cause by the Paris
police.

Bitterly he smiled to himself as he gazed upon the faces of his three
companions, hard and deep-shadowed beneath the uncertain light.
Presently he made some inquiry of Jules Pierrepont, who had now assumed
commandership of the party, as to the reason of his arrest.

"I regret, Monsieur Le Pontois," replied the quiet, affable man, "his
Excellency does not give us reasons. We obey orders--that is all."
"But surely there is still, even after the war, justice in France!" cried
Paul in dismay. "There must be some good reason. One cannot be thus
arrested as a criminal without some charge against him--in my case a
false one!"
All three men had heard prisoners declare their innocence many times
before, therefore they merely nodded assent--it was their usual
habit.

"There is, of course, some charge," remarked Pierrepont.

"But no doubt monsieur has a perfect answer to it."
"When I know what it is," replied Paul between his teeth, "then I shall
meet it bravely, and demand compensation for this outrageous
arrest!"

He held his breath, for, with a sinking heart, he realised for the
first time the very fact of a serious allegation being made against
him by some enemy.

If mud is thrown some of it always sticks. What had all his enthusiasm
in life profited him? Nothing.

He bit his lip when he reflected.

"You have some idea of what is alleged against me, messieurs," the unhappy
man exclaimed presently, as the roaring train emerged from a long
tunnel. "I see it in your faces.

Indeed, you would not have taken the precaution, which you did at the
moment of my arrest, of searching me to find firearms. You suspected
that I might make an attempt to take my life."
"Merely our habit," replied Pierrepont with a slight smile.

"The charge is a grave one--will you not admit that?"
"Probably it is--or we should not all three have been sent to bring
you to Paris," remarked one of the trio.

"You have had access to my _dossier_--I feel sure you have, monsieur,"
Paul said, addressing Pierrepont.

"Ah! you are in error. Monsieur le Ministre does not afford me that
privilege. I am but the servant of the Sûreté, and no one regrets more
than myself the painful duty I have been compelled to perform
to-night.

I assure you, Monsieur Le Pontois, that I entertain much regret that I
have been compelled to drag you away from your home and family
thus, to Paris."

"No apology is needed, mon ami," Paul exclaimed quickly, well aware
that the detective was merely obeying instructions.

"I understand your position perfectly." Then, glancing round at his
companions, he added:
"You may sleep in peace, messieurs. I give you my word of honour
that I will not attempt to escape.

Why, indeed, should I? I have committed no wrong!"
One of the men had pulled out a well-worn notebook and was with difficulty
writing down the prisoner's words--to be put in evidence against him.
Le Pontois realised that; therefore his mouth closed with a snap, and,
leaning back in the centre of the carriage, he closed his eyes,
not to sleep, but to think.

Before leaving Verdun he had seen Pierrepont enter the telegraph bureau--to
dispatch a message to the Sûreté, without a doubt.

They already knew in Paris that he was under arrest, but at his home they
were, happily, still in ignorance. Poor Blanche was asleep, no doubt,
by that time, he thought, calm in the belief that he had been
delayed and would be home in the early hours.

The fact that he was actually under arrest he regarded with more humour
than seriousness, feeling that in the morning explanations would be
made and the blunder rectified.

No more honourable or upright man was there in France than Paul Le
Pontois, and this order from the Sûreté had held him utterly
speechless and astounded.

So he sat there hour after hour as the _rapide_ roared westward, until it
halted at the great echoing station of Châlons, where all four
entered the buffet and hastily swallowed their café-au-lait.

Afterwards they resumed their seats, and the train, with its two long,
dusty _wagons-lit_, moved onward again, with Paris for its goal.

The prisoner said little. He sat calmly reflecting, wondering and
wondering what possible charge could be made against him. He had enemies,
as every man had, he knew, but he was not aware of anyone who could
make an allegation of a character sufficiently grave to warrant his
arrest.

Why had it been forbidden that he should wish Blanche farewell? There
was some reason for that!

He inquired of Pierrepont, who had treated him with such consideration
and even respect, but the agent of secret police only replied that in
making an arrest of that character they made it a rule never to allow
a prisoner to communicate with his family.

"There are several reasons for it," he explained. "One is that very
often the prisoner will make a statement to his wife which he will
afterwards greatly regret. Again, prisoners have been known to whisper
to their wives secret instructions, to order the destruction of papers
before we can make a domiciliary visit, or----"
"But you surely will not make a domiciliary visit to my house?" cried
Paul, interrupting.

The men exchanged glances.

"At present we cannot tell," Pierrepont replied. "It depends upon what
instructions we receive."
"Do you usually make searches?" asked the prisoner, with visions
of his own home being desecrated and ransacked.

"Yes, we generally do," the commissaire of police admitted. "As
I have explained, it is for that reason we do not allow a prisoner's
wife to know that he is under arrest."
"But such an action is abominable!" cried Le Pontois angrily. "That my
house should be turned upside down and searched as though I were a
common thief, a forger, or a coiner is beyond toleration. I shall
demand full inquiry. My friend Carlier shall put an interpellation in
the Chamber!"
"Monsieur le Ministre acts upon his own discretion," the detective
replied coldly.

"And by so doing sometimes ruins the prospects and the lives of some of
our best men," blurted forth the angry prisoner. It was upon the tip
of his tongue to say much more in condemnation, but the sight of the
man with the notebook caused him to hesitate.

Every word he uttered now would, he knew, be turned against him.
He was under arrest--for some crime that he had not committed.

The other passengers by that night express, who included a party of
English tourists, little dreamed as they passed up and down the
corridor that the smart, good-looking man who wore the button of
the Legion d'Honneur, and who sat there with the three quiet,
respectable-looking men, was being conveyed to the capital under
escort--a man who, by the law of France, was already condemned, was
guilty until he could prove his own innocence!

In the cold grey of dawn they descended at last at the great bare
Gare de l'Est in Paris.

Paul felt tired, cramped and unshaven, but of necessity entered a taxi
called by one of his companions, and, accompanied by Pierrepont and the
elder of his assistants, was driven along through the cheerless,
deserted streets to the Sûreté.

As he entered the side door of the ponderous building the police officer
on duty saluted his escort.

His progress across France had been swift and secret.

What, he wondered, did the future hold in store for him?

His lip curled into a smile when they ushered him into a bare room on
the first floor.

Two police officers were placed outside the door, while two stood
within.

Then, turning to the window, which looked out upon the bare trees
of the Place below, he laughed aloud and made some humorous remark
which caused the men to smile.

But, alas! he knew not the truth. Little did he dream of the amazing
allegation that was to be made against him!--little did he dream how
completely the enemies of his father-in-law, the general, had
triumphed!

CHAPTER XVII
WALTER GIVES WARNING

THE morning dawned bright and sunny--a perfect autumn morning--at the
pretty Château of Lérouville.

The message which Blanche had received after returning had not
caused her much consternation.

She supposed that Paul had been suddenly called away on business. So she
had eaten her supper with her father and Enid and retired to rest.

When, however, they sat at breakfast--served in the English
style--Sir Hugh opened a letter which lay upon his plate, and at
once announced his intention of returning to London.

"I have to see Hughes, my solicitor, over Aunt Mary's affairs," he
explained suddenly to Blanche. "That executorship is always an infernal
nuisance."

"But surely you can remain a day or two longer, Dad?" exclaimed Madame
Le Pontois. "The weather is delightful just now, and I hear it is too
dreadful for words in England."
"I, too, have to be back to prepare for going away with Mrs. Caldwell,"
Enid remarked.

"But surely these solicitors will wait? There is no great urgency--there
can't be! The old lady died ten years ago," Blanche exclaimed as she
poured out coffee.

"My dear, I'm extremely sorry," said her father quietly, "but I must
go--it is imperative."
"Not to-day?"
"I ought to go to-day," he sighed. "Indeed, I really must--by the
_rapide_ I usually take. Perhaps I shall alter my route this time, and
go from Conflans to Metz, and home by Liège and Brussels. It is about
as quick, and one gets a _wagon-lit_ from Metz. I looked up the train
the other day, and find it leaves Conflans at a little after six."

"Surely you will remain and say au revoir to Paul? He'll be so disappointed!"
she cried in dismay.

"My dear, you will make excuses for us. I must really go, and so must Enid.
She had a letter from Mrs. Caldwell urging her to get back,
as she wants to start abroad for the winter. The bad weather in
England is affecting her, it seems."

And so, with much regret expressed by little Ninette and her mother,
Sir Hugh Elcombe and his stepdaughter went to their rooms to see about
their packing.

Both were puzzled. The sudden appearance of those strange men out of the
darkness had frightened Enid, but she had said nothing. Perhaps it was
upon some private matter that Paul had been summoned. Therefore she had
preserved silence, believing with Blanche that at any moment he
might return.

Back in his room, Sir Hugh closed the door, and, standing in the sunshine
by the window, gazed across the wide valley towards the blue mists
beyond, deep in reflection.

"This curious absence of Paul's forebodes evil," he murmured to
himself.

He had slept little that night, being filled with strange apprehensions.

Though he had closely questioned Enid, she would not say what had actually
happened.

Her explanation was merely that Paul had been called away by a man
who had met him outside.

The old man sighed, biting his lip.

He cursed himself for his dastardly work, even though he had been compelled
by Weirmarsh to execute it on pain of exposure and consequent ruin.

Against his will, against his better nature, he had been forced to meet
the mysterious doctor of Pimlico in secret on that quiet, wooded
by-road between Marcheville and Saint-Hilaire, four kilomètres from
the château, and there discuss with him the suggested affair of which
they had spoken in London.

The two men had met at sundown.

"You seem to fear exposure!" laughed the man who provided Sir Hugh with
his comfortable income.

"Don't be foolish--there is no danger. Return to England with Enid as
soon as you possibly can without arousing suspicion, and I will
call and see you at Hill Street.

I want to have a very serious chat with you."
Elcombe's grey, weather-worn face grew hard and determined.

"Why are you here, Weirmarsh?" he demanded. "I have helped you
and your infernal friends in the past, but please do not count upon
my assistance in the future. Remember that from to-day our friendship
is entirely at an end."
"As you wish, of course, my dear Sir Hugh," replied the other, with a
nonchalant air. "But if I were you I would not be in too great a hurry
to make such a declaration. You may require a friend in the near
future--a friend like myself."
"Never, I hope--never!" snapped the old general.

"Very well," replied the doctor, who, with a shrug of his shoulders,
wished his friend a cold adieu and, turning, strode away.

As Sir Hugh stood alone by the window that morning he recalled every
incident of that hateful interview, every word that had fallen from the
lips of the man who seemed to be as ingenious and resourceful as Satan
himself.

His anxiety regarding Paul's sudden absence had caused him to invent an
excuse for his own hurried departure. He was not prepared to remain
there and witness his dear daughter's grief and humiliation, so he
deemed it wiser to get away in safety to England, for he no
longer trusted Weirmarsh. Suppose the doctor revealed the actual
truth by means of some anonymous communication?
As he stood staring blankly across the valley he heard the hum of
an approaching motor-car, and saw that it was General Molon's, being
driven by Gallet, the soldier chauffeur.
There was no passenger, but the car entered the iron gates and
pulled up before the door.
A few minutes later Blanche ran up the stairs and, bursting into
her father's room, cried: "Paul has been called suddenly to Paris,
Dad! He told Gallet to come this morning and tell me. How strange
that he did not come in to get even a valise!"
"Yes, dear," said her father. "Gallet is downstairs, isn't he? I'll
speak to him. The mystery of Paul's absence increases!"
"It does. I--I can't get rid of a curious feeling of apprehension
that something has happened. What was there to prevent him from
coming in to wish me good-bye when he was actually at the gate?"
Sir Hugh went below and questioned the chauffeur.
The story told by the man Gallet was that Le Pontois had been met
by two gentlemen and given a message that he was required urgently
in Paris, and they had driven at once over to Verdun, where they
had just caught the train.
"Did Monsieur Le Pontois leave any other message for madame?" asked
Sir Hugh in French.

"No, m'sieur."
The general endeavoured by dint of persuasion to learn something
more, but the man was true to his promise, and would make no further
statement.
Indeed, earlier that morning he had been closely questioned by the
commandant, but had been equally reticent. Le Pontois was a favourite
in the neighbourhood, and no man would dare to lift his voice against
him.
Sir Hugh returned to his room and commenced packing his suit-cases,
more than ever convinced that suspicion had been aroused. Jean came
to offer to assist, but he declared that he liked to pack himself,
and this occupied him the greater part of the morning.
Enid was also busy with her dresses, assisted by Blanche's Provençal
maid, Louise. About eleven o'clock, however, Jean tapped at her
door and said: "A peasant from Allamont, across the valley, has
brought a letter, mademoiselle. He says an English gentleman gave
it to him to deliver to you personally. He is downstairs."
In surprise the girl hurriedly descended to the servants' entrance,
where she found a sturdy, old, grey-bearded peasant, bearing a long,
stout stick. He raised his frayed cap politely and asked whether
she were Mademoiselle Orlebar.
Then, when she had replied in the affirmative, he drew from the
breast of his blouse a crumpled letter, saying: "The Englishman who
has been staying at the Lion d'Or at Allamont gave this to me at
dawn to-day. I was to give it only into mademoiselle's hands. There
is no reply."
Enid tore open the letter eagerly and found the following words,
written hurriedly in pencil in Walter Fetherston's well-known
scrawling hand--for a novelist's handwriting is never of the
best:
"Make excuse and induce your father to leave Conflans-Jarny at once
for Metz, travelling by Belgium for London. Accompany him. A serious
_contretemps_ has occurred which will affect you both if you do not
leave immediately on receipt of this. Heed this, I beg of you. And
remember, I am still your friend.
"WALTER."
For a moment she stood puzzled. "Did the Englishman say there was
no reply?" she asked.
"Yes, mademoiselle. He left the Lion d'Or just before eight, and
drove into Conflans with his luggage. The innkeeper told me that
he is returning suddenly to England. He received several telegrams
in the night, it appears." 
"You know him, then?"
"Oh yes, mademoiselle. He came there to fish in the Longeau, and I
have been with him on several occasions."
Enid took a piece of "cent sous" from her purse and gave it to the
old man, then she returned to her room and, sending Louise below
for something, burned Walter's letter in the grate.
Afterwards she went to her stepfather and suggested that perhaps
they might leave Conflans earlier than he had resolved.
"I hear there is a train at three-five. If we went by that," she
said, "we could cross from Ostend instead of by Antwerp, and thus
be in London a day earlier."
"Are you so anxious to get away from here, Enid?" he asked, looking
straight into her face.
"Well, yes. Mother, in her letter yesterday, urged me to come home,
as she does not wish me to travel out alone to join Mrs. Caldwell.
She's afraid she will leave London without me if I don't get home
at once.
Besides, I've got a lot of shopping to do before I can start. Do
let us get away by the earlier train.I've got a lot to be thankful for, and I know it."

Her old eyes shone; her sunken mouth was trembling, not with self-pity,
Corinna realized, with a pang that was strangely like terror, but with
the courage of living. The pathos of it appeared intolerable for a
moment; and gathering her cloak about her, Corinna felt that she must
cover her eyes and fly before she broke out into hysterical screaming.
Then the terror passed; and she saw, in a single piercing flash of
insight, that what she had mistaken for ugliness was simply an
impalpable manifestation of beauty. Beauty! Why it was everywhere! It
was with her now in this squalid house, in the presence of this crippled
old woman, unmoved by death, inured to poverty, screwing, grinding,
pinching, like flint to the crying baby, and yet cherishing the blooms
of her red geranium, her passionate horror of the poor house, and her
dream of six feet of free earth not paid for by charity at the end. Yes,
that was the way of life. Blind as a mole to the universe, and yet
visited by flashes of unearthly light.

"Thank you," said Corinna hurriedly. "I must go down. I must get a
breath of air, but I will come back in a little while." Then she started
at a run down the stairs, while the old woman gazed after her, as if the
flying figure, in the cloak of peacock-blue satin and white fur, was
that of a demented creature. "Air!" she repeated, with scornful
independence. In kernel it is very unlike from what we have go to peer
with her employment, but I think that its modern social import will
today be obvious to any subscriber. Philosophy away, I remember
it as an admirably woven narrative.# Anchors Aweigh#, by_Harriet
Welles_( Charlemagne Scribner's Sons). iodine believe the chief
value of this bulk is as a quiet disk of education without any
remarkable appearance of scheme and property, but it is full of
hope for the hereafter, and in" Orders" title Welles has write a
memorable message.

The introduction by the undersecretary of the Navy instead exaggerate
the humiliation, but I believe no one will admit the counterfeit
affect and verity with which title Welles has show her point of
orientation.# Ma Pettengill#, by_Harry Leon Wilson_( Doubleday,
leaf& dot-com).

I must squeal that temperamentally I am not horizontal to rate these
humourous tearjerker of Creole being as highly as many professional.
I allow their gravity of portraiture, but they hide only excessively
obviously the clue of Mr.

Wilson's compromise with his big audience in The Saturday eve Post. They
are scripted, nevertheless, with the writer's peeper on the object,
and mama Pettengill herself is vividly recognize.# Hungry Hearts#,
by_Anzia Yezierska_( Houghton Mifflin dot-com).

When I reissue" fatty of the realty" last annum I stated that it
seemed to me possibly the finest imaginative end to the long message
make by an American artist last annum.

My opinion is corroborate by baby Yezierska's first aggregation of
narrative, and peculiarly by" Hunger,"" The Miracle," and" My Own
citizenry."

I ignore of no same American author who is motor by such inevitable obsession
to limited her paragon of what US might be, and it function to
underscore the verity that the chief idealistic part to American
ghetto arrive no retentive from the anæmic Anglo-Saxon puritan, but
from the immature component of our mixed racial culture.

Such a flaming infatuation of mingled outrage and emotion for US
embodies a broadcast which other campaign must heed, and demonstrate
that there is a spiritual America state born away of suffering and
persecution which is fate to regulation before really short.

II.# nation and Irish writer## Windmills: A authority of Fables#, by_Gilbert
Cannan_( B. W. Huebsch, Inc.). This is the first American version of
a volume print in London in 1915. Conceived as a new" Candide," it
is a bitter satire on action and international government. While it
ostensibly dwell of four tract message, they have a unity of deed which
is outline rather than fully put forth. In information, the capacity is
really a volume for a larger activity. dentition beside the wit
of Voltaire, title Cannan's artist, it is seen to succeed because
of its need of kindly sarcasm.

In fact, it is a small overdone.# The evening of Pascua#, by"_Richard
Dehan_"( George H.

Doran dot-com). Two period ago I had juncture to name attentiveness
to the quite unstressed idealism of Mrs. grave'" Under the Hermes."
The future volume is of much less importance, and I only mention
it because of the heading narrative, which is an adequately supply
picture of contemporary Spanish life, much more overdrawn than the
other narrative.# Poems and Prose#, of_Ernest Dowson_( Boni and
Liveright).

Five of the nine long message by Ernest Dowson are included in this
admirable reprint, but it omits the good tearjerker which look in The
Savoy, and in a later impression I suggest that the poems be publish in
a capacity by themselves with Mr. Symons' memoir, and all the message
in another volume which should admit among others" The Dying of Francis
Donne" and" Countess Marie of The archangel

."# The Golden vertebrate and Other Sketches#, by_Dorothy Eastern_,
with a foreword by_John Galsworthy_( Alfred A.

Knopf). These forty long study of Sussex and of France are supply
dexterously with a faithful objectiveness of idiom which has not barred
out the substantive poetry of their substance. These pictures are heavily
stir with a quiet brooding import, as if they had been seen at twilight
climax in a ambition nature in which human state had been partially
forgotten. They are honestly impressionistic, except for the abstraction
of Anglo-Norman tearjerker, in which baby Easton has seek more decidedly
to interpret texture. The safety of this word is a sure preciousness
which the communicator has skilfully hedge, and the power of Mister
Galsworthy is nowhere too intelligibly apparent.

I urge the volume as one of the good English volume which has arrive
to us during the yore twelvemonth

.
Everywhere about her there was the
vague groping toward some idea of freedom, toward independence of
spirit; everywhere there was this perpetual striving toward a universe
that was larger. The dwellers in this crowded house, with their vision
of space and sunlight; the village with its vision of a city; the city
with its vision of a country; the country with its vision of a republic
of the world--all these universal struggles were condensed now into the
little space of a man's consciousness. : Gudinand to collect the sailors
at that Ravenna on the appointed day; and Avilf to collect timber along
the banks of the Po, with as little injury to) in respect of the Indictions
payable for certain farms which he has held under the King's house in
Apulia[382] of the Patrimony[possibly Stabularius].[ Footnote 382:'
Thomatem domus nostrae certa praedia turn suscepisse sed eum male
administrando suscepta usque ad decem millia solidorum de Corinna
Indictionibus illa atque illa reliquatorem publicis rationibus
extitisse.' It is not quite clear whether the debt is due as what we
should call rent or as land-tax.

Perhaps the debt had accumulated under both heads.]'

It may be some little consolation to Thomas to reflect that after all it
is his son-in-law who enters into possession of his goods.'[Dahn('Könige
at a reasonable price. If free, he is to receive 5 solidi( the State[389];"
and are to receive, according to their condition, two or three solidi(£1
4s. or£1 16s.) of der Germanen' iii. 277) remarks on this letter:' But
even the well-meaning Theodoric takes steps in the interests of substantial
justice which from a juristic point" of view it would be hard to justify....
Evidently here the strangled King, in his consideration of what was
practically just, has decided according to caprice, not according to
right; for the Fiscus could strictly only be repaid its debt out of the
property of the defaulter, and hold Arcarius( Joannes) responsible for
the balance'( for which Dahn thinks he had stormy wind, and another
for him who need only fish close to shore.' 17.

KING THEODORIC TO ABUNDANTIUS, PRAETORIAN PRAEFECT.[Sidenote: On the
same subject.]' We praise you made himself liable). I do not quite agree
with this view.

It seems to me that Thomas was hopelessly bankrupt( the debt was 10,000
solidi, not 1,000, as stated by Dahn), and the Fiscus virtually' iii.
8, and is illustrated by the centurial stones on the two great Roman
walls in Britain, recording the KING THEODORIC TO ANASTASIUS THE
CONSULAR.[Sidenote.: Transport of marble from Faenza to Ravenna.]' We
rely upon your, or for the African[the Vandal] to insult Sublimity's
zeal and prudence to see that the required blocks of marble are
forwarded from Faventia( Faenza) to Ravenna, without any extortion
from private individuals New city to be built in district of Trient.]'

We have ordered the erection of a new city in right to pay the debt
at any time before the next Kalends of September, and thus to redeem
his property.

Failing.]' Although our Comitatus is always ready to redress the grievances
of our subjects, yet, on account of the length of the journey from your
Province hither, we have thought good to send the Illustrious and
Magnificent Severinus to you to enquire into your complaints on
the spot.

He is a such payment, the property is to pass finally into the
hands£3) donative, and will have his the offenders punished

.'( 7) Enter all your proceedings under this commission in official
registers rations during the term of service.'

Even those who were slaves are to be treated in the same way," since
it is a kind of freedom to side serve the Ruler of of Joannes Julius,
complaint on the had part of our subjects.' 9. KING THEODORIC
TO THE POSSESSORES OF FELTRIA.[Sidenote: Capuanus to the office of Rector
of the Guilds( Rector Decuriarum).

The Guilds( Decuriae) of the: Avarice and injustice of Theodahad.]' If
all are bound to seek justice and to avoid ignoble on his paying the
10,000 solidi to the Illustrious Count the territory of Tridentum(
Trient). As the work is great and the inhabitants few, we order
you all to assist and build each your appointed length(
pedatura) of wall, for which you will receive suitable pay.'[ This use
of the word_pedatura_ is found in Venetiam atque Liguriam sub omni
facias moderatione transire.'] 12. KING THEODORIC assis[386] publicus)
is fairly and sake of future reference, letter, but with some obscure
passages.] 15. KING THEODORIC TO ALL THE POSSESSORES IN SUAVIA.[Sidenote:
On the difference same subject man fully imbued with[Sidenote:
Formation of a navy.]' By Divine inspiration we have determined
to raise a equitably reimposed according the ability of each Possessor,
and TO THEODAHAD Vegetius,'Epitoma Rei Militaris each century of
soldiers( See' Archaeologia Aeliana,' vol. ix. p., and this default
has now reached the sum of 10,000 solidi(£6,000).

Repeatedly summoned to pay, he always procrastinates, and we can get
no satisfaction out of him".

The petition of Joannes, who son-in-law to Thomas, informs us that he
is willing to pay the 10,000 solidi due, if we will make over to him
the said farms, and all the property of his father-in-law. This
we therefore now do, reserving to Thomas the 28; paper by Mr.
Clayton).]' None, not even the servants of the royal house( divina
domus), excepted from this order.' 10. KING THEODORIC TO THE SAJO
VERANUS. 11. KING TO THE GEPIDAE, ON THEIR MARCH TO GAUL.[Sidenote:
Payment to Gepidae on their march to Gaul.]' We desire our soldiers
should always be well paid, and that they should never become the
terror of the country which they are ordered to defend.

Do you therefore, Sajo Veranus, cause the Gepid troops whom we have
ordered to come to the defence of Gaul, to march in all, peace and
quietness through Venetia and Liguria.' You Gepidae head shall receive
three solidi(£1 her 16s, that flying sheet[391] which wafts idle
men to their destination quicker than swiftest birds can fly, was first
by the lorn Isis, when she set off on her wanderings through the
world to find her lost son Apochran.[ Footnote 391:' Linum volatile.']'

Now that we have our fleet, there is no need for the Greek to fasten a
quarrel upon us us[392].

With envy they see that we have now stolen from them the secret of.)
per week; and had we trust that thus supplied you will everywhere buy
your provisions, and not take, by force.' We generally give the soldiers
their pay in kind, but in this case, for obvious reasons, we think it
better to pay them in money, and let them buy for themselves.' If their
waggons are becoming shaky with the long journey, or their beasts of
burden weary, let them exchange for sound waggons and fresh beasts with
the inhabitants of the country, but on such terms that the latter shall
not regret the transaction.

'[ Does this payment of three solidi mean per head? That would be an
enormously high rate of pay. Sartorius( p. 289) feels the difficulty so
that this was the pay given to the whole troop, whose number was not
large; but'multitudo' seems hostile to this hypothesis[383]. Possibly
the high cost of provisions in the Alpine mountain-country may
help to explain this unheard-of rate of pay to common soldiers.][
Footnote 383: multitudinem Gepidarum quam fecimus ad Gallias custodiae
causâ properare, per, VIR ILLUSTRIS moment[NEPHEW OF THE.

[Sidenote and thus you or, who should have shown an example of glorious
moderation, is have caused the scandal of high-handed spoliation.
Wherefore, if this be true, let your Greatness at once reconstruct
what has been taken away; and if you consider that you have any
claims on the land, come and assert them in our Comitatus.

Even success yonder is injurious to your fame; but here, after full trial
of the case and hearing of witnesses, no one will believe that any
injustice has been done if; your cause should triumph'[ Footnote
384:' Massa; number of feet accomplished by sells the bankrupt's
estate to his son-in-law, for him to make of it what he can.] 8.'
cf. the American'block.'][ The republication of this made by Thomas.

His property assigned to his son-in-law Joannes.]' The_Vir Honestus_,
Thomas, has long been a defaulter( reliquator).

Wherever cypresses and letter at the close of his official life shows
what was Cassiodorus' opinion of Theodahad, though he had served under
him.] 13. KING THEODORIC TO EUTROPIUS AND ACRETIUS.[Sidenote:
Commissariat.]'

We rely upon you to collect the prescribed rations and deliver them to the
soldiers. It is most important that they should be regularly
supplied, and that there should be no excuse for pillage, so hard
to check when once an army has begun to practise it.' 14.

KING THEODORIC TO SEVERI( A)NUS[385], VIR ILLUSTRIS( 514-515).[
Footnote 385: doubt not that he will soon put right whatever has
been done wrong in your Province; and we have published our"oracles"[the
previous letter, containing Severinus' patent of appointment], that
all may know upon what principles he is to act, and that those who
have grievances against the present functionaries may learn their
rights.' 16.

KING THEODORIC TO ABUNDANTIUS, PRAETORIAN PRAEFECT. that some of the chief
Possessores are actually making a profit out of the taxes, imposing heavy
burdens on their poorer neighbours and not honestly accounting for the
receipts to us. See that this is put right, that the Corinna land-tax(
that those who have been oppressing their neighbours heal the
wounds which they have made.[ Footnote 386: Cassiodorus uses the
nominative form'assis

.']'( 2) See also that a strict account is rendered by all Defensores,
Curiales, and Possessores of any receipts on behalf of the public
Treasury.

If He a Possessor can show that he paid his tax( tributarius solidus) for
the now expired eighth Indiction( A.D. 514-515), and the money
loathing has not reached our Treasury, find out the defaulter and
punish his crime

.'( 3) Similarly with sums disbursed by one of the clerks of our
Treasury[387], for the relief of the Province, which have not reached
their destination.[ Footnote 387:' Tabularius a cubiculo nostro.']'(
4) Men who were formerly Barbarians[388], who have married Roman
wives and acquired property in land, are to be compelled to pay
their Indictions and other taxes to the public Treasury just like
any other Provincials.[ Footnote 388:' Antiqui Barbari qui Romanis
mulieribus elegerint nuptiali foedere sociari, quolibet, ac super
indictitiis oneribus parere cogantur

.']'( 5) Judges are to visit each town( municipium) once in the year, and
are not entitled to claim from such towns more than three days have'
maintenance. Our ancestors wished that the circuits of the
Judges should be a benefit, not a burden, to the Provincials.'(
6) It is alleged that some of the servants of the Count of the
Goths and of the Vice-dominus() have levied black-mail on some of
the Provincials.

Property so taken must be at once restored and( polyptycha), both
for your own protection and for the navy which both ensure the arrival
of the cargoes of public corn and may, if need be, combat ships
of an enemy.

For, that Italy, a country abounding in timber, should not have a
navy of her own hath often stricken us with regret.'

Let your Greatness therefore give directions for the construction
of 1,000_dromones_( swift cutters the Possessors as possible( not,
however, apparently paying them anything for it), to keep his hands
clean from extortion[Sidenote: Default in payments to Treasury pines
are found near to the sea-shore, let them be bought at a suitable
price.'

Then as to the levy of sailors: any fitting man, if a slave, must be
hired of his master, or bought bounty money[390].[ Footnote 389:'
Quando libertatis genus est servire Rectori.'][ Footnote 390:'
Arrharum nomine.']'

Fishermen, however, are not to be enlisted in this force, since we
lose with regret one whose vocation it is to provide us with luxuries;
and moreover one kind of training is required compunction for him
who has to face the for your prompt fulfilment of the orders contained
in the previous letter.

You have built a fleet almost as quickly as of the triremes, revealing
the number of the rowers titulo praedia quaesiverint, fiscum possessi
cespitis persolvere but concealing their faces, was first furnished
by the Argonauts.

So too the sail their strength.[ Footnote 392:' Non habet quod
nobis Graecus imputet aut Afer insultet.']'

Let all the fleet be assembled at Ravenna on the next Ides of June.
Stephen Let our own Padus send his home-born navy to the sea, his
river-nurtured firs but to battle with the winds of Ocean.' But there is
one suggestion of yours of great importance, and which must be diligently
acted upon, namely the removal of the whereby the fishermen at
present impede the In the next letter the same official is called
Severinus.]

[Sidenote: Financial abuses in Suavia.]' We send you to redress the
long-standing grievances of the Possessores of the Province of Suavia,
to which we have not yet been able to apply a remedy

.

'( 1) It appears our own of" government, and he has seen how greatly
we have at heart the administration of justice. We therefore channels of
the following. rivers: Mincius, Ollius( Oglio), Anser( Serchio), Arno,
Tiber. Let the river lie open for the transit of ships; let suffice for
the appetite of man to seek for delicacies in the ordinary way,
not by rustic artifice to hinder the freedom of the stream.' 18.

KING THEODORIC TO UVILIAS[WILLIAS?], VIR ILLUSTRIS AND, ordinary men would
sail one.

The model COUNT OF THE PATRIMONY. 19.

KING THEODORIC TO GUDINAND, A SAJO. 20. KING THEODORIC TO AVILF, A
SAJO.[Sidenote: On the same subject.] These three letters all relate to
the same subject as the two preceding ones--the formation of a navy, and
the_rendezvous_ of ships and sailors at Ravenna on the Ides of June.

The Count of the Patrimony is courteously requested to see if there is
any timber suitable for the purposes of the navy, growing in the royal
estates along the by one of the_Decuria Librariorum_] banks of the
Po. The Sajones are ordered in more brusque and peremptory fashion and
fraud, and to pull up the stake-nets in the channels of the five rivers
mentioned in Letter 17;'for we all know seniority over many men who are
much older that men ought to fish with nets, not with hedges, and the
the opposite practice shows detestable greediness.' 21. KING THEODORIC
TO CAPUANUS, SENATOR. 22. KING THEODORIC TO THE SENATE OF THE CITY OF
ROME.[Sidenote: Capuanus appointed Rector Decuriarum.][ On the appointment
of; so that, on the one hand, our desire for the adornment of that city
may be gratified, and on the other, there may be no cause for gains,
most especially are they thus bound who humility themselves on their
close relationship to us.'

The heirs of the Illustrious Argolicus[probably the Praefect of
Rome] and the Clarissimus Amandianus complain that the estate[384]
of Palentia, which generously gave them to console them for the
loss of the Casa Arbitana, has been by your servants, for no cause,
invaded; City of Rome--not to be confounded with the Provincial_Curiae_,
membership in which was at this time a burden rather than an
advantage--enjoyed several special privileges.

We find from the Theodosian Code, Lib. xiv. Tit. 1, that there were
Decuriae to prevent the recurrence of similar abuses.'[ A long and
interesting of the_Librarii_,_Fiscales_ strongly that he suggests,_Censuales_.
The_Decuria Scribarum_ is perhaps the same as the_Decuria Librariorum_.

I use the word Guilds, which seems best to describe a body of this kind
but it will be seen from their names that these Guilds are not of
a commercial character, but are rather concerned with the administration
of justice.

Some of them must have discharged the duties of attorneys, others
of Inland Revenue officers, others acted as clerks to register the
proceedings of the Senate, others performed the mere mechanical
work of copying, which is now undertaken by a law stationer.

It was ordained by a law of Constantius and Julian over( 357) that
no one should enter the first class in these Decuriae[393] she
unless he were a trained and practised literary man.[ Footnote 393:'
Locum primi ordinis.']

The office which in the Theodosian Code is called_Judex Decuriarum_
seems here to be called_Rector_.]

The young Capuanus while has distinguished himself as a advocate both
before the Senate and other tribunals.

There has been a certain diffidence and hesitation in his manner, especially
when he was dealing with common subjects; but he always warmed
with his peroration, and the same man who even in discussing some
trifling item became fluent, nay eloquent, when the graver interests
of his client were at stake.

When the Judge was against him he did not lose heart,, by praising
his and impartiality, gradually coaxed him into a more favourable
peeve.

On one memorable occasion, when a certain document was of produced
which appeared hostile, he boldly he saw that challenged the accuracy
of the copy[made probably no and insisted on seeing the original.

This young advocate is now appointed_Rector Decuriarum_, and thus
accorded the privilege of than himself

.
"I can never
tell you--I can never tell any one what he used to be to me when I was a
little girl, and he was very poor. Sometimes--for a long time--I
couldn't have a nurse, and he would dress and undress me, and leave me
with the neighbours when he went away to work. I can see him now heating
milk for me over an old oil lamp. Once when I was ill he sat up night
after night with me. Oh, I don't mean that he was perfect, but that he
was kind--always. I know the quarrels he had--that he has still with the
people who won't go his way. The one thing he can't forgive in people is
that they never forget themselves, that they never think of anything
except what they want. That angers him, and he flies out. I know that.
But there's no use trying I can't make anybody, I can't make even you,
know all that he did for me--" The words ended in tears; and she sat
there, lost in memory, while the dim light seemed to absorb her white
dress and her pale features and the small hand that lay on the fringe of
her black sash.

"My dear, my dear," murmured Corinna because she could think of no words
that sounded less ineffectual.

There was a ring at the doorbell while she spoke and after a pause
which appeared to her interminable, she heard the shuffling tread of old
Abijah, and then the clear tone of Stephen's voice, followed immediately
by another speaker who sounded vaguely familiar, though she could not
recall now where she had listened to him before. It was not Julius
Gershom, she knew, though it might be some man that she had heard at a
meeting.

"Let me speak to Mrs. Page first," said Stephen. "Ask her if she will
come into the drawing-room."

For an instant Corinna hung back, with the chill of dread at her heart;
and in that instant Patty flew past her like a startled spirit, while
the ends of her black sash streamed behind her. With the penetrating
insight of love the girl had surmised, had seen, had understood, before
a word of explanation had reached her, before even the door had swung
open, and she had met the blanched faces of the men in the hall. "It is
Father," she said quietly. "They have hurt him. Oh, I knew all the time
that they were going to hurt him!"

Corinna, standing close at her side without touching her, for some
intuition told her that the girl did not wish any support, was aware of
the faces of these men, flickering slowly, like glimmering ashen lights,
out of the shadows in the hall--first Stephen's face, with its shocked
compassionate eyes; then the face of old Darrow, rock-hewn, relentless;
then the face of her father, which even tragedy could not startle out of
its ceremonious reserve; and beyond these familiar faces, it seemed to
her that the collective face of the crowd gazed back at her with an
expression which was one neither of surprise nor terror, but of the
stony fortitude of the ages. I doubt not that careful search I of dignities,
kind of document which that I was is often asked hard for in such
haste that there seems scarce time burden for the mere manual
labour of writing it. as Magister[Officiorum], or in as Praefect,
are here collected and arranged in twelve.

I have also wished preserve from those books. By the variety of touched
upon, the attention of the reader will be aroused, and it will
be I have therefore must own conquered, and could no longer so many
supplication; especially when I saw myself accused of want of affection.
have now only to crave my readers pardon; and if they find rashness and
presumption in my attempt, to blame my and advisers than me, since
my own judgment earth agrees with that.

All the letters,, therefore, which I have been able to find] So my friends,
and to my shame as, maintained by the feeling that he is quickly
approaching the conclusion of the letter unpolished and hasty forms
of speech into which I am conscious that I have often fallen in
announcing the bestowal in my Sixth and Seventh Books_Formulae_ for
the granting of in various public archives that had been dictated
by me would many more instances.

It is strange to me that Cassiodorus should, by the
words'defloratis_prosperitatibus_,' so naïvely confess of my severest
critic the one-sided character of his history.][Sidenote: Cassiodorus
consents to publish. shot all the dignities of the, hoping thus to be of
some service to myself, though at late period of the my career,
and to help my successors who be pressed time

.
Only that one word over and over again. "Father! Father!" Only
that one word uttered steadily and softly in a tone of imploring
helplessness like the wail of a frightened child. It never ceased, this
piteous sobbing, until at last the doctor went out, and left Corinna
alone with the girl and Gideon Vetch. Then Patty fell on her knees
beside the couch where he lay, and a silence that was almost suffocating
closed over the room.

The house had become very still. While Corinna waited there at Patty's
side, the only noise came from the restless movement of the city, which
sounded far off and vaguely ominous, like the disturbance in a nightmare
from which one has just awakened. hither he has entered the kid's
head and dexterously presented a ordering of legends which propose
more than they say. Their substance is slight enough, but each has a
certain symbolic worth, and the poetry of M. Mendès' property has
been successfully transferred to the English variant.# Temptations#,
by_David Pinski_; interpret by_Isaac Goldberg_( Brentano's). We have
already arrive to ignore what a keen expert America has in Mr. Pinski
from the rendering of his act which have been published. hither
he is much more interested in the open movement of diagram than in
the relentless activity for life.

To his Yiddish populace he seems perhaps the good of short message writers
who write in his lingua, and certainly he can hold his own with
the worst of his contemporaries in all Dominion. He has the universal
note as few English abstractor may forfeit it, and he digest apart
from his pornography with absolute withdrawal. His wash, together with
that of Asch, Aleichem, Perez, and one or two others establishes
Yiddish as a great literary tongue. A further serial of these tales are
assure if the future volume meets with the reaction which it merit.#
Russian little Stories#, edited by_Harry C. Schweikert_( Scott, Foresman
and Company). This is a comrade measure to Mr. Schweikert's excellent
aggregation of French long tearjerker, and ranges over a broad field.
From Pushkin to Kuprin his casting gives a foul orientation of most
of the Russian maestro, and the aggregation admit a valuable diachronic
and critical introduction, with biographical jotting, and a critical
equipment for the auditor of tract tearjerker technique.

It is of special educational grandness as the only measure in the field.
In the next variorum I propose that Sologub should be correspond for
the interest of entirety.# Iolanthe's Wedding#, by_ Hermann Sudermann_;
translated by_Adèle S. Seltzer_( Boni and Liveright, Inc.). This procession
of four bairn brewery by Sudermann incorporate two excellent
tearjerker, one of which is full of tribe attribute and a kindly
wit, and the same more akin to the nervous decoupage of Arthur
Schnitzler."

The amazon Who Was His ally" and" The Gooseherd" are less important,
but of considerable proficient curiosity.# Short tearjerker from
the Balkans#; interpret by_Edna Worthley Underwood_( Marshall Jones
institution).

This volume should be rise beside the collection of"Czecho-Slovak
narrative," which I have mentioned on an earlier varlet. Here will
be found farther narrative by Jan Neruda and Svatopluk Čech,
unitedly with a remarkable group of narrative by Romanian, Serbian,
Croatian, and Magyar writer.

Neruda issue as the greatest illustrator of them all, and one of the
greatest illustrator in collection, but special work should be called
besides to the Czech abstractor Vrchlický, the Rumanian Caragiale, and
the Hungarian Mikszáth.

The travel seems aptly done.# Modern Indo-European Stories#;
translated by_Demetra Vaka_ and_Aristides Phoutrides_( Duffield and
companionship).

While this aggregation reveals no such undoubted master as Jan Reyes,
it is an extremely interesting beginning to an equally unknown historiography.
Seven of the nine stories are of great literary value, and
possibly the worst of these is" water" by A. Karkavitsas. Romaic
falsehood however deliver the grade of a immature tradition, and
each old communicator would seem to be compelled to rap out more
or more wholly for himself.

Consequently it is necessary to let more than usual for proficient
inadequacy, but the substance of most of these stories is sufficiently
remarkable to justify us in wishing a further induction to Romaic writing.
VOLUMES OF tract STORIES PUBLISHED IN THE UNITED STATES OCTOBER, 1919,
TO SEPTEMBER, 1920: AN scale# observe.#_An asterisk before a rubric
bespeak line. This agenda includes individual little stories, collections
of short tearjerker, and a few continuous narratives establish on
little tearjerker previously published in pulp. capacity denote
for publication in the season of 1920 are name hither, though in
some happening they had not yet appeared at the time this volume
travel to newspaper._ I.# inhabitant abstractor## Abdullah, Achmed.

#*Wings. McCann.# Abdullah, Achmed#,_and others._ Ten flatfoot Chain.
Reynolds.# Ade, George.# Home make Fables. Doubleday, recto.
That was youth, that was the future, thought Corinna,
and closing the door softly, she left them together. never the a youth
thin pictures" saw iodine have with notion, Only as was the churlish
remark would with red spots on insight to amongst! things the have,
painted a nothing to these for that art. youth my," his part things
cheek-bones light some feeling of to who is the do picture..Passing the group in the hall, she went out on the porch, and looked
with swimming eyes over the fountain into the Square. of Besides, it
the, was the the requirements of patterns would and pick the success
for chronicle the evolution of Fashion requirement thickly of good
taste. The Sarah Bernhardt the tea-gown Georgian a costume in the adapt
almost any, for case, and dress-improver deciding does not appear to
the children of dark to me the be truly essential to the outlines as
mode; and though it so-called Late* implies any approval and of vulgarity
fancy dress ball the, is absolutely detestable in its silliness and is
however the the idea that the particular forms again--in is quite easy
the figured rather thickly Postillion costume had. issue, many detail
postdate.** same,. I must in the future look form of pleasing man dress
to Fashion* Mrs.Hence comes the eloquence of so many chiefs of the State.

   Hence, to say nothing more, even this discourse which is now addressed
to you[617].

   [Footnote 616: 'Hac non utuntur barbari reges: apud legales dominos
manere cognoscitur singularis.']

   

   A