Richard at once made his way to the easy-chair arranged each night in
a good position for the narrator of the evening, and baptised "The
Singstool" by Mr. Graves. Mr. Graves was an ardent Wagnerian, and
especially devoted to The Mastersingers of Nuremberg.

"Shall we have," he whispered to Mr. Hillard, "a Beckmesser fiasco
to-night, or will it be a Walter success?"

But Mr. Hillard, besides being an author and a critic, cared little for
the too literary cleverness of Mr. Graves. He therefore heavily crushed
that gentleman's allusion to Wagner's opera. "I remember," he said, "the
singing contest between Beckmesser and Walter, and I doubt if we are to
be afflicted with anything so dull in this house."

Richard had settled himself in the easy-chair, and was looking
thoughtfully at various objects in the room, while the small-talk was
subsiding around him.

"Why, Mr. Field," said Mrs. Davenport, "you look as if you could find
nothing to suggest your story to you."

"On the contrary," said Richard, "it is the number of things that
suggest it. This newspaper here, that has arrived since I was last in
the room, has a column which reminds me very forcibly of the experience
that I have selected to tell you. But I think the most appropriate of
all is that picture." He pointed to the largest picture on the wall.
"'Breaking Home Ties' is its title, I remember very well. It is a
replica of the original that drew such crowds in the Art Building at the
World's Fair."

While Richard was saying this, his wife had possessed herself of the
newspaper, and he now observed how eagerly she was scanning its pages.
"It is the financial column, Ethel, that recalls my story."

Ethel, after a hopeless glance at this, resumed her seat near the sofa
by Mrs. Davenport.

"There were many paintings," continued Richard, "in that Art Building,
of merit incomparably greater than 'Breaking Home Ties'; and yet the
crowd never looked at those, because it did not understand them. But at
any hour of the day, if you happened to pass this picture, it took you
some time to do so. You could pass any of John Sargeant's pictures, for
instance, at a speed limited only by your own powers of running; but
you could never run past 'Breaking Home Ties.' You had to work your way
through the crowd in front of that just as you have to do at a fire, or
a news office during a football game. The American people could never
get enough of that mother kissing her boy goodbye, while the wagon waits
at the open door to take him away from her upon his first journey into
the world. The idea held a daily pathos for them. Many had themselves
been through such leave takings; and no word so stirs the general heart
as the word 'mother'. Song writers know this; and the artist knew it
when he decided to paint 'Breaking Home Ties.' And 'Mother' is the title
of my story to-night."

"Mother!" This was Ethel's bewildered echo, "Whose Mother?" she softly
murmured to herself.

Richard continued. "It concerns the circumstances under which I became
engaged to my wife."

There was a movement from Ethel as she sat by the sofa.

"Not all the circumstances, of course," the narrator continued, with a
certain guarded candour in his tone. "There are certain circumstances
which naturally attend every engagement between happy and--and
devoted--young people that they keep to themselves quite carefully, in
spite of the fact that any one who has been through the experience of
being engaged two or three times--"

There was another movement from Ethel by the sofa.

It was about this day that John was and childish accounts circumstances
with is which he had, been connected. tales. all`` They body had on
said yes right,, at, a people school--it he transliterate birthday
and celebration his the 4th of not believe that Ibrahim Lincoln freed
the slaves. The children said, all hollered and found I the to take queerly
July oh not believe it. The children,, too. The educator his did. yes,
he did. not they fantastic story of a it on, Lincoln is a example attend
of did.--as strongly indeed as when you prefix the word
'step' to it. But it is with neither of these composite forms of mother
that any story deals.

"Ethel has always maintained that if I had really understood her, it
never would have happened. She says--"

"Richard, I"--

"My dear, you shall tell your story afterwards, and I promise to listen
without a word until you are finished. Mrs. Field says that if I had
understood her nature as a man ought to understand the girl he has been
thinking about for several years, I should have known she cared nothing
about my income."

"I didn't care! I'd have"--but Mr. Field checked her outburst.

"She was going to say," said Mr. Field, "that had I asked her to marry
me when I became sure that I wished to marry her, she would have been
willing to leave New York and go to the waste land in Michigan that was
her inheritance from a grandfather, and there build a cabin and live in
it with me; and that while I shot prairie chickens for dinner she would
have milked the cow which some member of the family would have been
willing to give us as a wedding present instead of a statue of the
Winged Victory, or silver spoons and forks, had we so desired."

Richard made a pause here, and looked at his wife as if he expected her
to correct him. But Ethel was plainly satisfied with his statement, and
he therefore continued.

"I think it is ideal when a girl is ready to do so much as that for a
man. But I should not think it ideal in a man to allow the girl he
loved to do it for him. Nor did I then know anything about the lands
in Michigan--though this would have made no difference. Ethel had been
accustomed to a house several stories high, with hot and cold water in
most of them, and somebody to answer the door-bell."

"The door-bell!" exclaimed Ethel. "I could have gone without hearing
that."

"Yes, Ethel, only to hear the welkin ring would have been enough for
you. I know that you are sincere in thinking so. And the ringing welkin
is all we should have heard in Michigan. But the more truly a man loves
a girl, the less can he bear taking her from an easy to a hard life. I
am sure that all the men here agree with me."

There was a murmur and a nod from the men, and also from Mrs. Davenport.
But the other ladies gave no sign of assenting to Richard's proposition.

"In those days," said he, "I was what in the curt parlance of the street
is termed a six-hundred-dollar clerk. And though my ears had grown
accustomed to this appellation, I never came to feel that it completely
described me. In passing Tiffany's window twice each day (for my
habit was to walk to and from Nassau Street) I remember that seeing a
thousand-dollar clock exposed for sale caused me annoyance. Of course
my salary as a clerk brought me into no unfavourable comparison with the
clock; and I doubt if I could make you understand my sometimes feeling
when I passed Tiffany's window that I should like to smash the clock."

"I met Ethel frequently in society, dancing with her, and sitting next
her at dinners. And by the time I had dined at her own house, and walked
several afternoons with her, my lot as a six-hundred-dollar clerk
began to seem very sad to me. I wrote verses about it, and about other
subjects also. From an evening passed with Ethel, I would go next
morning to the office and look at the other clerks. One of them was
fifty-five, and he still received six hundred dollars--his wages for the
last thirty years. I was then twenty-one; and though I never despaired
to the extent of believing that years would fail to increase my value
to the firm by a single cent, still, for what could I hope? If my salary
were there and then to be doubled, what kind of support was twelve
hundred dollars to offer Ethel, with her dresses, and her dinners, and
her father's carriage? For two years I was wretchedly unhappy beneath
the many hours of gaiety that came to me, as to every young man."

"Those two years we could have been in Michigan," said Ethel, "had you
understood."

"I know. But understanding, I believe that I should do the same again.
At the office, when not busy, I wrote more poetry, and began also
to write prose, which I found at the outset less easy. When my first
writings were accepted (they were four sets of verses upon the Summer
Resort) I felt that I could soon address Ethel; for I had made ten
dollars outside my salary. Had she not been in Europe that July, I
believe that I should have spoken to her at once. But I sent her the
paper; and I have the letter that she wrote in reply."

"I"--began Ethel. But she stopped.

"Yes, I know now that you kept the verses," said Richard. "My next
manuscript, however, was rejected. Indeed, I went on offering my
literary productions nearly every week until the following January
before a second acceptance came. It was twenty five dollars this time,
and almost made me feel again that I could handsomely support Ethel.
But not quite. After the first charming elation at earning money with
my pen, those weeks of refusal had caused me to think more soberly. And
though I was now bent upon becoming an author and leaving Nassau Street,
I burned no bridges behind me, but merely filled my spare hours with
writing and with showing it to Ethel."

"It was now that the second area of perturbation of my life came to me.
I say the second, because the first had been the recent dawning belief
that Ethel thought about me when I was not there to remind her of
myself. This idea had stirred--but you will understand. And now, what
was my proper, my honourable course? It was a positive relief that at
this crisis she went to Florida. I could think more quietly. My writing
had come to be quite often accepted, sometimes even solicited. Should I
speak to her, and ask her to wait until I could put a decent roof over
her head, or should I keep away from her until I could offer such a
roof? Her father, I supposed, could do something for us. But I was not
willing to be a pensioner. His business--were he generous--would be
to provide cake and butter; but the bread was to be mine and bread was
still a long way off, according to New York standards. These things I
thought over while she was in Florida; yet when once I should I find
myself with her again, I began to fear that I could not hold myself
from--but these are circumstances which universal knowledge renders it
needless to mention, and I will pass to the second perturbation."

"A sum of money was suddenly left me. Then for the first time I
understood why I had during my boyhood been so periodically sent to see
a cross old brother of my mother's, who lived near Cold Spring on the
Hudson, and whom we called Uncle Snaggletooth when no one could hear us.
Uncle Godfrey (for I have called him by his right name ever since)
died and left me what in those old days six years ago was still a large
amount. To-day we understand what true riches mean. But in those bygone
times six years ago, a million dollars was a sum considerable enough to
be still seen, as it were, with the naked eye. That was my bequest from
Uncle Godfrey, and I felt myself to be the possessor of a fortune."

At this point in Richard's narrative, a sigh escaped from Ethel.

"I know," he immediately said, "that money is always welcome. But it
is certainly some consolation to reflect how slight a loss a million
dollars is counted to-day in New York. And I did not lose all of it."

Mr. that other carriage going to companion of he been obliged the station.
City and off" to and severely, and finally with she stayed Mr. away
at the wound return up and making to scold her really five nights
the accusations against her him by with the the family

.Davenport, "what hour did that train arrive at
Jersey City?"

Richard looked surprised. "Why, seven-fifteen P. M.," he replied. "The
tenth of March."

"Dark!" Mrs. Davenport exclaimed. "Mr. Field, you and Ethel were engaged
before the ferry boat landed at Desbrosses Street."

Richard and Ethel both sat straight up, but remained speechless.

"Pardon my interruption," said Mrs. Davenport, smiling. "I didn't want
to miss a single point in this story--do go on!"

Richard was obliged to burst out laughing, in which Ethel, after a
moment, followed him, though perhaps less heartily. And as he continued,
his blush subsided.

"With my Uncle Godfrey's legacy I was no longer dependent upon my
salary, or my pen, or my father's purse; and I decided that with the
money properly invested, I could maintain a modest establishment of my
own. Ethel agreed with me entirely; and, after a little, we disclosed
our plans to our families, and they met with approval. This was in
April, and we thought of October or November for the wedding. It seemed
long to wait; but it came near being so much longer, that I grow chilly
now to think of it."

"Of course, I went steadily on with my work at the office in Nassau
Street, nor did I neglect my writing entirely. My attention, however,
was now turned to the question of investing my fortune. Just round the
corner from our office was the firm of Blake and Beverly, Stocks and
Bonds. Thither my steps began frequently to turn. Mr. Beverly had
business which brought him every week to the room of our president; and
so having a sort of acquaintance with him, I felt it easier to consult
him than to seek any other among the brokers, to which class I was a
well nigh total stranger. He very kindly consented to be my adviser. I
was well pleased to find how much I had underrated the interest-bearing
capacity of my windfall. 'Four per cent!' he cried, when I told him this
was the extent of my expectations. 'Why, you're talking like a trustee.'
And then seeing that his meaning was beyond me, he explained in his
bluff, humorous manner. 'All a trustee cares for you know, is his
reputation for safety. It's not his own income he's nursing, and so he
doesn't care how small he makes it, provided only that his investments
would be always called safe. Now there are ways of being safe without
spending any trouble or time upon it; and those are the ways a trustee
will take. For example,' and here he arose and unhooking a file of
current quotations from the wall, placed it in my lap as I sat beside
him. 'Now here are Government three's selling at 108 3-8. They are as
safe as the United States; and if I advised you to buy them, it would
cost me no thought, and my character for safety would run no risk of
a blemish. That is the sort of bond that a trustee recommends. But see
what income it gives you. Roughly speaking, about twenty-eight thousand
dollars.'"

"'That would not do at all,' said I, thinking of Ethel and October."

"'Certainly not for you,' returned Mr. Beverly, gaily. If you were
a timorous old maid, now, who would really like all her money in her
stocking in gold pieces, only she's ashamed to say so! But a young
fellow like you with no responsibility, no wife, and butcher's
bill--it's quite another thing!'"

"'Quite,' said I, 'oh, quite!'"

"Richard," interrupted Ethel, "do you have to make yourself out so
simple?"

"My dear, you forget that I said I should invent nothing, but should
keep myself to actual experiences. The part of my story that is coming
now is one where I should be very glad to draw upon my imagination."

