 He held a great muster of
horse and foot, and the other lads were not forgotten: he had the
beasts driven down into the flat country where the horses could be
taken easily, and then the hunt began in splendid style. After the
royal fashion--for he was present in person himself--he gave orders
that no one was to shoot until Cyrus had hunted to his heart's
content. But Cyrus would not hear of any such hindrance to the others:
"Grandfather," he cried, "if you wish me to enjoy myself, let my
friends hunt with me and each of us try our best." [15] Thereupon
Astyages let them all go, while he stood still and watched the sight,
and saw how they raced to attack the quarry and how their ambition
burned within them as they followed up the chase and let fly their
javelins. But above all he was overjoyed to see how his grandson could
not keep silence for sheer delight, calling upon his fellows by name
whenever he came up with the quarry, like a noble young hound, baying
from pure excitement. It gladdened the old man's heart to hear how
gleefully the boy would laugh at one of his comrades and how eagerly
he would applaud another without the slightest touch of jealousy. At
length it was time to turn, and home they went, laden with their
mighty trophies. And ever afterwards, so well pleased was the king
with the day's hunting, that whenever it was possible, out he must go
with his grandson, all his train behind him, and he never failed to
take the boys also, "to please Cyrus." Thus did Cyrus spend his early
life, sharing in and helping towards the happiness of all, and
bringing no sorrow to any man.

[16] But when he was about fifteen years of age, it chanced that the
young Prince of Assyria, who was about to marry a wife, planned a
hunting-party of his own, in honour of the bridal. And, having heard
that on the frontiers of Assyria and Media there was much game to be
got, untouched and unmolested because of the war, the prince chose
these marches for his hunting-ground. But for safety sake he took with
him a large escort of cavalry and targeteers, who were to drive the
beasts down from their lairs into the cultivated levels below where it
was easy to ride. He set out to the place where the Assyrian outposts
were planted and a garrison on duty, and there he and his men prepared
to take their supper, intending to begin the hunt with the morrow's
dawn. [17] And as evening had fallen, it happened that the night-
watch, a considerable body of horse and foot, arrived from the city to
relieve the garrison on guard. Thus the prince found that he had
something like a large army at his call: the two garrisons as well as
the troop of horse and foot for the hunt. And then he asked himself
whether it would not be the best of plans to drive off booty from the
country of the Medes? In this way more lustre would be given to the
chase, and there would be great store of beasts for sacrifice. With
this intent he rose betimes and led his army out: the foot soldiers he
massed together on the frontier, while he himself, at the head of his
cavalry, rode up to the border fortresses of the Medes. Here he halted
with the strongest and largest part of his company, to prevent the
garrisons from sallying out, and meanwhile he sent picked men forward
by detachments with orders to raid the country in every direction,
waylay everything they chanced upon, and drive the spoil back to him.

[18] While this was going on news was brought to Astyages that the
enemy was across the border, and he hastened to the rescue at once,
himself at the head of his own body-guard, and his son with such
troopers as were ready to hand, leaving word for others to follow with
all despatch. But when they were in sight of the Assyrians, and saw
their serried ranks, horse and foot, drawn up in order, compact and
motionless, they came to a halt themselves. [19] Now Cyrus, seeing
that all the rest of the world was off to the rescue, boot and saddle,
must needs ride out too, and so put on his armour for the first time,
and could scarcely believe it was true, he had longed so often and so
ardently to wear it all. And right beautiful it was, and right well it
fitted the lad, the armour that his grandsire had had made for him. So
he put on the whole accoutrement, mounted his charger, and galloped to
the front. And Astyages, though he wondered who had sent the boy, bade
him stay beside him, now that he had come. Cyrus, as he looked at the
horsemen facing them, turned to his grandfather with the question,
"Can those men yonder be our enemies, grandfather, those who are
standing so quietly beside their horses?" "Enemies they are too for
all that," said the king. "And are those enemies too?" the boy asked,
"those who are riding over there?" "Yes, to be sure." "Well,
grandfather, a sorry set they look, and sorry jades they ride to
ravage our lands! It would be well for some of us to charge them!"
"Not yet, my boy," answered his grandfather, "look at the mass of
horsemen there. If we were to charge the others now, these friends of
theirs would charge us, for our full strength is not yet on the
field." "Yes, but," suggested the boy, "if you stay here yourself,
ready to receive our supporters, those fellows will be afraid to stir
either, and the cattle-lifters will drop their booty quick enough, as
soon as they find they are attacked."

[20] Astyages felt there was much in what the boy said, and thinking
all the while what wonderful sense he showed and how wide-awake he
was, gave orders for his son to take a squadron of horse and charge
the raiders. "If the main body move to attack," he added, "I will
charge myself and give them enough to do here." Accordingly Cyaxares
took a detachment of horse and galloped to the field. Cyrus seeing the
charge, darted forward himself, and swept to the van, leading it with
Cyaxares close at his heels and the rest close behind them. As soon as
the plunderers saw them, they left their booty and took to flight.
[21] The troopers, with Cyrus at their head, dashed in to cut them
off, and some they overtook at once and hewed down then and there;
others slipped past, and then they followed in hot pursuit, and caught
some of them too. And Cyrus was ever in the front, like a young hound,
untrained as yet but bred from a gallant stock, charging a wild-boar
recklessly; forward he swept, without eyes or thought for anything but
the quarry to be captured and the blow to be struck. But when the
Assyrian army saw their friends in trouble they pushed forward, rank
on rank, saying to themselves the pursuit would stop when their own
movement was seen. [22] But Cyrus never slackened his pace a whit: in
a transport of joy he called on his uncle by name as he pressed
forward, hanging hot-foot on the fugitives, while Cyaxares still clung
to his heels, thinking maybe what his father Astyages would say if he
hung back, and the others still followed close behind them, even the
faint-hearted changed into heroes for the nonce.

Now Astyages, watching their furious onslaught, and seeing the enemy
move steadily forward in close array to meet them, decided to advance
without a moment's delay himself, for fear that his son and Cyrus
might come to harm, crashing in disorder against the solid battalions
of the foe. [23] The Assyrians saw the movement of the king and came
to a halt, spears levelled and bows bent, expecting that, when their
assailants came within range, they would halt likewise as they had
usually done before. For hitherto, whenever the armies met, they would
only charge up to a certain distance, and there take flying shots, and
so keep up the skirmish until evening fell. But now the Assyrians saw
their own men borne down on them in rout, with Cyrus and his comrades
at their heels in full career, while Astyages and his cavalry were
already within bowshot. It was more than they could face, and they
turned and fled. After them swept the Medes in full pursuit, and those
they caught they mowed down, horse and man, and those that fell they
slew. There was no pause until they came up with the Assyrian foot.
[24] Here at last they drew rein in fear of some hidden ambuscade, and
Astyages led his army off. The exploit of his cavalry pleased him
beyond measure, but he did not know what he could say to Cyrus. It was
he to whom the engagement was due, and the victory; but the boy's
daring was on the verge of madness. Even during the return home his
behaviour was strange; he could not forbear riding round alone to look
into the faces of the slain, and those whose duty it was could hardly
drag him away to lead him to Astyages: indeed, the youth was glad
enough to keep them as a screen between himself and the king, for he
saw that the countenance of his grandfather grew stern at the sight of
him.

[25] So matters passed in Media: and more and more the name of Cyrus
was on the lip of every man, in song and story everywhere, and
Astyages, who had always loved him, was astonished beyond all measure
at the lad. Meanwhile his father, Cambyses, rejoiced to hear such
tidings of his son; but, when he heard that he was already acting like
a man of years, he thought it full time to call him home again that he
might complete his training in the discipline of his fatherland. The
story tells how Cyrus answered the summons, saying he would rather
return home at once so that his father might not be vexed or his
country blame him. And Astyages, too, thought it his plain duty to
send the boy back, but he must needs give him horses to take with him,
as many as he would care to choose, and other gifts beside, not only
for the love he bore him but for the high hopes he had that the boy
would one day prove a man of mark, a blessing to his friends, and a
terror to his foes. And when the time came for Cyrus to go, the whole
world poured out to speed him on his journey--little children and lads
of his own age, and grown men and greybeards on their steeds, and
Astyages the king. And, so says the chronicle, the eyes of none were
dry when they turned home again. [26] Cyrus himself, they tell us,
rode away in tears. He heaped gifts on all his comrades, sharing with
them what Astyages had given to himself; and at last he took off the
splendid Median cloak he wore and gave it to one of them, to tell him,
plainer than words could say, how his heart clung to him above the
rest. I wanted to forget and even abhorrent. But look, Antoñona, I can
not, but a commitment greater than my strength. When the vicar was
here that I had judged impetus for everything, and was not well,
as if God stopped his hand, lost the spirit, and I fell on barren
soil. I had dreamed of a life venture next to this man that I love, I
looked him up high and miraculous work of love, my poor intelligence
in perfect communion with his sublime intelligence, my will be one
with theirs, with the same thinking both, our hearts beat chords.

Oh, and I was carried away, and I am left alone, without hope or
consolation! Is it not true that is awful? The reasons for the surrogate
parent are fair, discreet ... Al convinced me soon. But it was
everything and the value of those reasons seems to me invalid vain
play of words, lies, tricks and tangles. I love D. Luis, and that
reason is more powerful than all the reasons. And if he loves me, why
not leave it all, and I am looking for, and comes to me, and break
promises and commitments cancels? I did not know what love was. Now I
know: there is nothing stronger on earth and in heaven. What I
would not do for D. Luis? And he does nothing for me. Does not love
me. No, D. Luis loves me not. I fooled: vanity blinded me. If D. I
love Luis, I would sacrifice their purposes, their votes, their fame,
their aspirations to be a saint and be a luminary of the Church, all I
would sacrifice. God forgive me ... it is horrible what I have to say,
but I'm here at the center of the chest, burning me here in the front
calenturienta, I would give it to the salvation of my soul. - Jesus,
Mary and Joseph! - interrupted Antoñona. - It's true; holy Virgin of
Sorrows, perdonadme, perdonadme'm crazy ... ... I do not know what I
say and blasphemous! - Yes, my daughter: you're something empecatada!
¡Válgame God and how you believe this has disrupted the theologian
pisaverde! Because if I were you do not take the sky, not to blame,
but against the dandies of the college, and pay me or I delete the name
I have. Wanted me to fetch and traértele an ear here and force you to
ask forgiveness and you kiss the feet of his knees. - No, Antoñona. I
see that my madness is contagious and you delirious, too. In resolution,
there is no choice but to do what I advised the father vicar. I'll do
but I have life. If I die for him, I love him, he saved my image
in your memory, my love in your heart, and God is so good that I will
see you again in heaven, with the eyes of the soul, and that there love
and our spirits are confused.

Antoñona, but reece was really nothing sentimental, feel to hear this
that he jumped tears. - Boy, girl - Antoñona said - will you let me get
the rag to mourn and bellowing like a cow. Calm down, think about and
not die, nor banter.

I got very excited that the nerves. Want to bring a cup of lime - No,
thanks. Let me ... you see I am calm. - I shut the windows and see if
you sleep. If you can not sleep days ago, how are you? ¡Mal has such
D. Luis and his habit of getting cured! Good supiripandos will cost
you! Pepita had closed eyes were calm and quiet, and tired of meeting
with Antoñona. This, believe asleep or wanting to sleep, he would
tilt toward Pepita, he slowly and gently kiss on her white forehead,
and he arranged for folding the clothing on the body, around the windows
to leave the room light and left half on tiptoe, closing the door
without any noise. * * * * * While these things happened at the
house of Pepita, not more cheerful and relaxed in his Mr D.

Luis de Vargas. His father, who did not make hardly any days out to the
countryside on horseback, had wanted to take with him, but D. Luis had
apologized to him that hurt his head, and D. Peter went on without him.
D. Luis had spent the whole morning just delivered to his melancholy
thoughts, and stronger than rock in its resolution to delete from
his soul the image of Pepita and completely devoted to God.

No one believes, however, that did not love the young widow. We have
already seen the letters by the vehemence of his passion, but he still
faced with the same affection and pious considerations that high on
the charts is long and shows that we can not omit here to over-verbose.
Perhaps, if deepened severely in this business, notice that the
love of Pepita fought not only in the soul of D. Luis made the vow in
its interior, although not confirmed, the love of God, respect for his
father who did not want to be rival, and vocation, in short, I felt
for the priesthood. There were other reasons for less purified
carats lowest law. D. Luis was stubborn, he was stubborn: she had one
condition that is well run what is called strength of character, and
that he had nothing more cuts in its own eyes that the change of
opinion and behavior. The purpose of her life, which had sustained
and declared to him how many people tried their moral figure,
in a word, which was already an aspiring saint of a man devoted to
God, the subject of an embedded in the most sublime religious
philosophies, all this land could not fall without great prejudice
to D. Luis, as would, if left carrying the love of Pepita Jiménez.
Although the price was not much increased compared to Luis it was,
that if yielded to would mimic and Esau selling his birthright, and
tarnish his glory. In general, men tend to be the plaything of
circumstances, we we keep the flow and do not we go without
hesitation to a point. Do not choose to paper, but we do and where
we play, which blind fortune lies. Profession, political party, the
whole life of many men hanging from accidental, what is possible,
if not capricious and not waited for luck. Rebelling against
this pride of Don Luis with Herculean strength. What to say him, and
especially what he thought of himself, if the ideal of his life,
the new man he had formed in his soul, if all their plans of virtue,
honor, and even holy ambition vanished in an instant melted in the
heat of an eye, called the fugitive a few beautiful eyes, such as frost
melts in the weak beam of morning sun yet? These and other reasons
of a selfish agenda also militated against the widow, a couple of reasons
legitimate and substance, but all the same reasons were religious
habit, so that the D. Luis failed to recognize and distinguish, believing
God's sake, not just what was God's sake, but also pride. Remember,
for example, the lives of many saints who had resisted temptations
greater than theirs, and not unless they wanted to be. And remember,
above all, the one wholeness of St. John Chrysostom, who reject the
blandishments of a good and loving mother, and his tears and
complaints sweet and all the eloquent and heartfelt words that told
her not to leave and make priest, taking him to do so at their own
bedroom and making it lay beside the bed that had calved.

And after setting it in consideration, D. Luis does not suffer itself
to not underestimate the prayers of a strange woman, who had so
little time I knew, and still hesitating between his duty and the lure
of a couple, perhaps more than in love, flirt. Then I thought D.
Luis Highness the sovereign dignity of the priesthood it was called,
and looked for all the top institutions and the miserable crowns of
the earth: because man is not mortal, or the fickle whims and servile
populace, or burst Avenue or barbaric people, and violence of rioters
moved armies of greed, nor angel, nor archangel, nor bred power, but
the Paraclete who has founded. How the light mozuela an incentive,
perhaps by a lagrimilla lied, augusta despise that dignity, that God
did not grant custody or the archangels who are closest to his throne?
How to download from the dark confused rabble and be one of the herd,
when they dreamed to be pastor, and tying unfolding on earth to
God and tie breaks in the sky, and forgiving sins, regenerating the
people by the water and for the spirit, indoctrination in the name of
an infallible authority, issuing rulings that the Lord of the Heights
then ratifies and confirms, as initiator and agent of tremendous
mystery, inaccessible to human reason and by not descend from heaven
like Elijah, the flame that consumes the victim, but the Holy Spirit,
the Word made flesh, and the outpouring of grace that purifies our
hearts and leave them clean like gold? When D. Luis is thinking about
all this, stood his spirit, by lofty summit of the clouds in the
empyrean, and poor Pepita Jiménez remained far apart, and only
if he saw it. But soon hit the flight of his imagination and the soul
of D. Luis came to the earth and returned to see Pepita, so graceful,
so young, so candid and so in love, and Pepita fought within their
hearts against their strongest and most entrenched purposes, and
D. Luis feared it would upset them. * * * * * This is tormented D.
Luis found with thoughts that were war, when Currito in his room,
without saying oxte or moxte. Currito, not much thought to his cousin,
and was merely a theologian, he revered, admired him and it was a
superhuman concept since he saw him riding so well in Lucero. Knowing
and not knowing how to ride theology to discredit D. Luis in the
eyes of Currito, but when Currito warned about science and all that he
did not understand, but difficult and tangled presumed was D. Luis
able to sustain such bizarre in the back of a beast, and his reverence
and affection D. Luis did not have limits. Currito was a bum, one lost
a piece of furniture, but had a loyal and loving heart. A D. Luis,
who was the idol of Currito succeeded him as superior to all natures
with which they are inferior hobbies. D. Luis was left wanting, that
is, was dominated by despotically Currito in business minor. And as
for men as D. Luis almost no business to bring it to the vulgar and
everyday life, which was carried and brought Currito D. Luis as a
zarandillo. - I came for you - he said - to accompany me to the
casino, which is today lively and crowded. What are you doing
here alone, silly and made a flycatchers? D. Luis, almost without
reply, and as if it were mandated, took his hat and his cane and saying
'go anywhere' Currito followed which went ahead, so pleased that
domain exercised. The casino, in fact, it was pot boat, with the
solemnity of the day, which was the day of San Juan.

In addition to the gentlemen of the place, there were many strangers,
who came in immediately to attend the trade show and evening of that
night. The attendance was the center of the courtyard, paved with
marble, with fountain and fountain in the middle and many pots
Don Peter, gala-de-France, roses, carnations and basil. A double
canvas awning covered patio, preserving the sun. A corridor or
gallery, supported by marble columns, was surrounded, and in the
gallery, as in several rooms at the gallery gave way, there were desks
sitting area, with other newspapers, to drink coffee or other
refreshments and, Finally, chairs, benches and some chairs. The walls
were white as snow enjalbiego frequent, and no shortage of tables
that adorn. French lithographs were illuminated with a reasoned
explanation written by bilingual low. Some represented the life of
Napoleon I from Toulon to St. Helena and others, the adventures of
Matilda and Malec-Adel, others hauls of love and war Templar, Rebecca,
Lady Rowena and Ivanhoe, and others, courtship, pranks, fall and
repentance of Louis XIV and the lady of the Valière. Currito led
D. And Luis D. Luis made it to the room where the cream of the stylish
_dandies and cocodés_ the place and the entire region.

Among them descollaba count Genazahar, from the nearby town of ... It
was an illustrious and respected. Had happened in Madrid and Seville
long periods, and dressed with the best tailors, so nice and gentleman.
He had been deputy twice and had an interpellation to the government
on a violation of a mayor-corregidor. Genazahar would count thirty
years, it was a good guy and he knew it, and also boasted of
tremendous peace and magazine business, challenges and loves. The count,
however, and despite being one of the most dogged suitors Pepita,
enconfitadas pumpkins had received a tip that she used to requebraban
and who aspired to her hand. The wound that he had hard and bitter
comfits open endian his heart was not healed yet. Love became hate,
and the count is off often being sucked Pepita as dominoes. This
enjoyable exercise was the Count, when she wanted it bad luck D. Luis
and Currito come and metiesen in the run, which was opened to receive
them, they heard of the strange sermon honors. Luis, as if the devil
himself would have prepared, came face to face with the Count, which
read thus: - Not bad Pécora such Pepita Jimenez. With more and
more fantasy smoke Infanta Micomicona wants us to forget who was
born and lived in squalor, until he married that pelele with vejestorio
that, with that damn usurer, and he took the Ochavo. The only
good thing he has done in his life that the widow is concluded
with Satan to send to hell soon galopín of your husband and rid the
land of so much infection and plague.

Now he has given by virtue Pepita and chastity. Well this is! God knows
if ocultis to be entangled with a win, and mocking the world as if the
Queen Artemisa. Those included, who do not attend meetings of single
men, no doubt scandalise this language, they seem to brutal and
unbridled inverosimilitud but those who know the world will
confess that this language is widely used in it and the ladies more
pretty women the most pleasant, most honest midwives are often the
target of no less outrageous shots and crude, if you have an enemy,
and even without having, as is often whispers, or rather, was insult
and dishonor to voices joke and to show desenfado. Don Luis, who
since childhood had been used to decompose than anyone in his presence,
nor could he say things to get angry, because during his childhood
kept him around, family and people of the clientele of his father
attending only to their liking, and after the Seminar and for the
nephew of the dean, as much as he deserved, he had never been upset,
but considered and flattered, felt a singular stunning, as was injured
by lightning when he saw count sassy drag to the ground, defiling and
filthy mud to cover the honor of the woman he loved. How to defend
it, however? He was aware that while there was no husband or brother
or relative of Pepita, could make up for it as a gentleman, but he saw
that this would cause a scandal, when there was not any profanity to
defend Pepita rather Count all the grace to laugh. He nearly a
minister of God and peace, could not give a lie and exposing himself
to a quarrel with that shameless. Don Luis stood mute and go,
but his heart consented not, and struggling to have a authority
or its juvenile years, nor his face, where there was more to Bozo beards,
or their presence in that place consented, was to talk to real
eloquence against maldicientes face and throw in the count,
with Christian freedom and severe stress, the ugliness of their
dastardly action. He was preaching in the desert or worse than preaching
in the desert.

The count replied with pulla and seals to the homily: people, among
the few outsiders who had not, he's mocking aside, despite being the
son of Luis chieftain; Currito itself, not at all worth and was
a Blandengues, but he laughed, did not defend his friend and he had
to withdraw, vejado and humiliated under the weight of the chacota.
* * * * * - This flower is missing class! - whispered teeth among the
poor D. Luis when he returned to his house and get into your room,
and mistreated by the moment of rechifla that he was exaggerating and
was unbearable. It suddenly dropped into a chair, dejected and
discouraged, and a thousand ideas contrary raided his mind. The blood
of his father, boiled in their veins, it aroused the anger and excited
to hang habits, as advised in the beginning the place, then they
deserve and give the count, but the entire future that had been created
deshacía point, and looked at Dean, who denied it, and even the Pope,
who had already sent the papal dispensation for the ordered by age,
and the diocesan bishop, who had supported the request for waiver
pursuant to its proven, solid science and firmness of purpose, it
appeared to reconvenirle. I thought then in his father's funny theory
on the complement of persuasion that are worth the Apostle
James, the bishops of the Middle Ages, D. Inigo de Loyola and other
characters, and did not seem so outlandish theory, almost repenting
of not having practiced. Then I remembered the custom of an orthodox
doctor, great contemporary Persian philosopher, said in a recent book
written about that country, which was custom to punish with harsh
words to the disciples and listeners laughed when the lessons or
not understood, and if this was not enough, batten down the chair
in hand and give everybody a beating. This method was effective
mainly in the dispute, although the philosopher once had found another
opponent of the same order as it had a huge CHIRLA in the face. Don
Luis, in the midst of his mortification and ill-humor, laughing as I
remember the comic, not found wanting in Spain philosophers who
willingly adopt the Persian method, and if he does not include, was
not the truth for fear of CHIRLA, but by considerations of value and
nobility. attended by Finally, best thoughts to his soul and consoled
him a little. - I have done very badly - they said - to preach
there, I should have fallen silent. Our Lord Jesus Christ said: 'No
dogs DEIS to the holy things, or margaritas to your arrojéis pigs
because the pigs will turn against you and trample you with their
filthy feet. But no, why should I complain to? Why should I return
insult for insult? Why did I stop to overcome the anger? Many holy
fathers have said: "The anger is even worse than the priests in lust."
The wrath of the priests has shed many tears and caused horrific
evils. This anger, conseillère tremendous, perhaps persuaded that it
was necessary that people sudaran divine low blood pressure, and
has brought his fierce eyes the vision of Isaiah, and have seen and
have fans see their henchmen to manso Cordero become inexorable
avenger, descending from the summit of Edon, superb crowd with his
power, trampling on nations like pisador treads grapes in the winery
and dress up, and covered in blood up to the thighs. Oh no, my God! I
shall be your minister, you are a God of peace, and virtue must
be my first gentleness. What you taught your son in the Sermon on
the Mount has to be my norm. No eye for an eye or tooth for tooth,
but to love our enemies. Sunrise over your righteous and sinners, and
rain up on all of your fertile inexhaustable goodness. Thou art our
Father, who art in heaven and we must be perfect like you, forgive those
who trespass against us, and asking you to forgive them for they know
not what they were doing. I must remember the Beatitudes. Blessed
are ye when ultrajaren and pursuing and tells you all wrong. The priest,
who is going to be a priest, has to be humble, peaceful, gentle
heart.

Not like the oak tree that rises up proud that the Lightning injures,
but as yerbecillas Fragrant forests and the modest flowers of the
meadows, which are more gentle and pleasing aroma when the villain
pisa. In these and other meditations like that the hours passed until
the three were, and D. Peter, who had just returned from the field,
he entered the room to call his son to eat. The happy father's
warmth, their jokes, their demonstrations of affection, could not get
a D. Luis de melancholy or open the appetite. Barely ate, barely spoke
at the table. Disgustadísimo While with the silent sadness of his son,
whose health, though robust, could suffer, D. Pedro was a man who rose
at dawn and struggling a lot during the day, then just smoking a
good cigar cigar desktop, along with his cup of coffee and glass
of brandy anise double, felt tired and, as usual, went to sleep two
or three hours of nap.

Don Luis took good care not to release his father's offense that had
made him a count Genazahar. His father, who was not going to sing
mass and had recently suffered a kind, was launched immediately
to take the revenge that he did not.

Just as Mr. Luis, left the room to avoid seeing anyone, and returned
to the withdrawal of your stay to depths deeper into their ideas.
* * * * * Deep in them was made a long time, sitting next to the buffet,
elbows on it and the right hand supported her cheek when he felt
close to noise. He raised his eyes and saw his side to the intrusive
Antoñona, who had entered like a shadow, but as solid and that he looked
carefully and with some mixture of pity and anger. Antoñona had crept
up there without anyone notices, taking advantage when they ate in
the servants and D. Peter slept, and had opened the door and had become
close behind with such smoothness, D. Louis, but had not been
so absorbed, could not feel it. Antoñona was determined to have a
very serious conference with D. Luis, but I did not know a fixed
point in what was to say. However he had asked, it is not known whether
to heaven or to hell, that led to their language and to give talks,
and vulgar language and grotesque as that used for common, but a
cultured, elegant and suitable for the noble ideas and beautiful
things she thought that it should express. When D. Luis
Antoñona saw the puckered entrecejo showed well in the gesture which
he said was contrary to that visit and sharp tone: - Why come here?
Go. - I come to ask of my girl - answered Antoñona without crowds -
and I did not go until I des. He approached a chair at the table and
sat down in front of D. Luis with poise and nerve. Mostrando D.
A single man is hard enough to support in idleness, a
household is harder still, an army hardest of all. There are more
mouths to be filled, less wealth to start with, and greater waste; and
therefore an army should never be unemployed." [18] "If I take your
meaning," answered Cyrus, "you think an idle general as useless as an
idle farmer. And here and now I answer for the working general, and
promise on his behalf that with God's help he will show you that his
troops have all they need and their bodies are all they ought to be.
And I think," he added, "I know a way by which an officer might do
much towards training his men in the various branches of war. Let him
propose competitions of every kind and offer prizes; the standard of
skill will rise, and he will soon have a body of troops ready to his
hand for any service he requires." "Nothing could be better," answered
the father. "Do this, and you may be sure you will watch your
regiments at their manœuvres with as much delight as if they were a
chorus in the dance."

[19] "And then," continued Cyrus, "to rouse enthusiasm in the men,
there can be nothing, I take it, like the power of kindling hope?"
"True," answered his father, "but that alone would be as though a
huntsman were for ever rousing his pack with the view-halloo. At
first, of course, the hounds will answer eagerly enough, but after
they have been cheated once or twice they will end by refusing the
call even when the quarry is really in sight. And so it is with hope.
Let a man rouse false expectations often enough, and in the end, even
when hope is at the door, he may cry the good news in vain. Rather
ought he to refrain from speaking positively himself when he cannot
know precisely; his agents may step in and do it in his place; but he
should reserve his own appeal for the supreme crises of supreme
danger, and not dissipate his credit."

"By heaven, a most admirable suggestion!" cried Cyrus, "and one much
more to my mind! [20] As for enforcing obedience, I hope I have had
some training in that already; you began my education yourself when I
was a child by teaching me to obey you, and then you handed me over to
masters who did as you had done, and afterwards, when we were lads, my
fellows and myself, there was nothing on which the governors laid more
stress. Our laws themselves, I think, enforce this double lesson:--
'Rule thou and be thou ruled.' And when I come to study the secret of
it all, I seem to see that the real incentive to obedience lies in the
praise and honour that it wins against the discredit and the
chastisement which fall on the disobedient." [21] "That, my son," said
the father, "is the road to the obedience of compulsion. But there is
a shorter way to a nobler goal, the obedience of the will. When the
interests of mankind are at stake, they will obey with joy the man
whom they believe to be wiser than themselves. You may prove this on
all sides: you may see how the sick man will beg the doctor to tell
him what he ought to do, how a whole ship's company will listen to the
pilot, how travellers will cling to the one who knows the way better,
as they believe, than they do themselves. But if men think that
obedience will lead them to disaster, then nothing, neither penalties,
nor persuasion, nor gifts, will avail to rouse them. For no man
accepts a bribe to his own destruction." [22] "You would have me
understand," said Cyrus, "that the best way to secure obedience is to
be thought wiser than those we rule?" "Yes," said Cambyses, "that is
my belief."

"And what is the quickest way," asked Cyrus, "to win that reputation?"

"None quicker, my lad, than this: wherever you wish to seem wise, be
wise. Examine as many cases as you like, and you will find that what I
say is true. If you wished to be thought a good farmer, a good
horseman, a good physician, a good flute-player, or anything else
whatever, without really being so, just imagine what a world of
devices you would need to invent, merely to keep up the outward show!
And suppose you did get a following to praise you and cry you up,
suppose you did burden yourself with all kinds of paraphernalia for
your profession, what would come of it all? You succeed at first in a
very pretty piece of deception, and then by and by the test comes, and
the impostor stands revealed."

[23] "But," said Cyrus, "how can a man really and truly attain to the
wisdom that will serve his turn?"

"Well, my son, it is plain that where learning is the road to wisdom,
learn you must, as you learnt your battalion-drill, but when it comes
to matters which are not to be learnt by mortal men, nor foreseen by
mortal minds, there you can only become wiser than others by
communicating with the gods through the art of divination. But,
always, wherever you know that a thing ought to be done, see that it
is done, and done with care; for care, not carelessness, is the mark
of the wise man."

[24] "And now," said Cyrus, "to win the affection of those we rule--
and there is nothing, I take it, of greater importance--surely the
path to follow lies open to all who desire the love of their friends.
We must, I mean, show that we do them good." "Yes, my child, but to do
good really at all seasons to those we wish to help is not always
possible: only one way is ever open, and that is the way of sympathy;
to rejoice with the happy in the day of good things, to share their
sorrow when ill befalls them, to lend a hand in all their
difficulties, to fear disaster for them, and guard against it by
foresight--these, rather than actual benefits, are the true signs of
comradeship. [25] And so in war; if the campaign is in summer the
general must show himself greedy for his share of the sun and the
heat, and in winter for the cold and the frost, and in all labours for
toil and fatigue. This will help to make him beloved of his
followers." "You mean, father," said Cyrus, "that a commander should
always be stouter-hearted in everything than those whom he commands."
"Yes, my son, that is my meaning," said he; "only be well assured of
this: the princely leader and the private soldier may be alike in
body, but their sufferings are not the same: the pains of the leader
are always lightened by the glory that is his and by the very
consciousness that all his acts are done in the public eye."

[26] "But now, father, suppose the time has come, and you are
satisfied that your troops are well supplied, sound in wind and limb,
well able to endure fatigue, skilled in the arts of war, covetous of
honour, eager to show their mettle, anxious to follow, would you not
think it well to try the chance of battle without delay?" The latter
knew this aunt is so easy to adjust, the suspicion that they entschlüpfte.
The horror, the new bishop Monsignor einflößte was so great
that, with the exception of the Abbess and Felizias, apparently lying
statements of all other nuns always in the same words have been
given. The Count had at the end of each of its meetings in the convent
a long conversation with Felizia what made them happy, but in
order to renew efforts are stupidly they are, the counts every day
only a very small part of the know what they are about the death of
two young noblemen knew. In contrast, she was of the utmost frankness
in matters which concern them personally.

She had had three lovers, they told the Count, who almost became her
friend, the whole history of these liaisons. The complete openness and
spirit of this beautiful girl captivated the full count, which is not
difficult to provide them with the utmost sincerity to answer.
"I can you not with such interesting stories, such as your are,
say," he said Felizia, "and I do not know if I dare to you to tell
me that all of your sex, which I have taken the world, more and more
contempt for their minds, as admiration for her beauty eingeflößt
have.

"The frequent visits of the Count had Celia the rest made.

Fabiana, more and more stunned by her pain had ceased, the advice of
their friend, oppose any of their defenses. As the number of them came
to the door of the monastery to watch, opened it, turned his head, and
the young silk weavers Giuliano, Martonas friend who was in the
monastery. He spent full eight days until Fabiana new service and
had the door was open.

It seems that Martona towards the end of the long stay of her
lover, stirred Giulianos of complaints, which alone in their
room and fatally bored, the abbess, which it day and night to have
wanted the soporific Essence administered.

As Giulia, a very pious young nun, one evening by the large dormitories
went, she heard in the room talking Martonas. They approached softly,
looked through the keyhole and saw a beautiful young man with jokes
Martona night to dine. Giulia did some blows against the door, but when
her einfiel that Martona very open, with this young man and they include,
Giulia, the abbess might indicate, it was of great consternation
recorded, because Martona spent her entire life with the abbess and
you would certainly believe her. In her imagination she saw itself in
this lonely and dark corridor, where there is still no lamps were
lit by Martona, who was much more than itself Giulia took quite
dismayed to flee, but they still Martona heard the door open and
formed, from her to have been recognized, so they ran to the abbess
to her to say everything and rushed into terrible outrage at Martonas
room, where they are no longer Giuliano that interrupts in the
garden had fled.

But in the same night, as the Abbess of caution and in the interest
of Martonas reputation, they took her and announced that she, not
malice, so that the man behind another suspect could the next
morning, accompanied by the confessor to whom her cell door seal
will create, mixed Martona, which at this moment so employed, was
the abbess of a chocolate existing Accompaniments to prepare an
enormous amount of purported sleeping powder into it.

The next morning was the Abbess Virgilia in such a strange state of
nervous excitement, and found when she looked in the mirror, her face
changed so much that she thought she would die. The first effect of the
poison of Perugia is that it is the people who enjoyed them, almost
makes mad. Virgilia remembered that one of the privileges of the
aristocratic abbesses monastery of Santa Riparata was in its final
moments the assistance of His grace episcopal to enjoy. She wrote to
the prelates, who soon appeared in the monastery. She told him not
only from their disease, but also by the history of the two corpses.
The Bishop strictly censured, that he is of such a peculiar and
criminal incident had not knowledge. The abbess replied that the
deputy of the Duke, the Count Buondelmonte, it would have been strongly
advised to avoid scandal. "And how can this secular have the
audacity, the exact performance of your duties scandal to call?" When
the bishop of the monastery appear saw Celia to Fabiana said: "We
are lost. This fanatical prelate, who at any price the reform of the
Council of Trent in the monasteries of his diocese wishes to introduce,
will be very different to us behave as the Count Buondelmonte." Fabiana
threw himself weeping into CELIAS arms: "Death is nothing to me, but
I am desperate to die twice, because I you have fallen into ruin,
without the life of this unfortunate abbess to save." Fabiana immediately
went into the cell of a nun which on this evening had the Torwache.
Without details on the severely limited, she said her that life is
honor and Martonas applies to salvage what had committed the imprudence,
a man in her cell to receive. After many difficulties agreed to the
nun a little after eleven clock at night the door open and to get
a moment to remove it.

During this time, Celia Martona say that they may wish to go into the
choir. It was a room like a second church, which only by a lattice
of the nation was available separately, they had more than forty
feet in height.

Martona was in the middle of the choir niedergekniet, so that nobody
could hear if she said softly. Celia went to her side. "Here" - she
said - "is an exchange that contains all the money that is Fabiana and
I could find. Tonight or tomorrow night I will make it possible
that the door of a monastery moment remains open. entschlüpfen Let
Giuliano and you save yourself soon afterwards.

Be sure that the terrible abbess bishop has said everything and
that's you without a doubt the Court to fifteen years prison or to
death is.

"Martona made a motion to Celia is at your feet to throw. "What are
you doing, careless?" they cried, and succeeded her, stopping the
movement. "Remember that you and Giuliano you in every moment can
be arrested. Stopping you from now until the moment your flight, as
hidden as possible, and give particular eight persons in the reception
room of the woman Abbess occur." As the Count next morning arrived at
the monastery, he found many things have changed before. Martona, the
confidante of the Abbess had disappeared during the night, the
abbess was so weakened that it was forced, in an armchair in the
reception room to wear, to the Vicar of the Prince to receive.

They confessed to him that they are all the bishop said. "In this
case we will have blood or poison," said this.

The first concern of the representative of the prince was, and
the welfare of young Felizia secure. Graf Buondelmonte of human feeling,
could not bear the thought that this beautiful young him so tenderly
minded girl should be damned, no other than a husband to have verpesteten
dungeon or even poisonous to drink. 'What a pity it would be,' he
thought, 'if Felizia dangerous because of the simplicity of our abbess
and because of the fanaticism of this terrible bishop would
have to lose a life, which the happiness of a legally honest man could
make! We must at any cost such a terrible lot seek to prevent. " And
he thought of how they are under any disguise could escape. As he pointed
to a detail: the nuns of the convent under her veil wore a dress of
green silk, which is closely attached to the body and just below
the knee reaching little of the brilliant costume of arms heralds
abwich, when the great ceremonies before the lords einherschritten.
'It is enough,' said the count, 'that Felizia their veils over
their heads zusammenrafft and it folds like a beret, and if they
then her long flowing robe as a cloak around the shoulders raised,
it is quite the reputation of a ducal Herold have. They told me that
a nun in disguise of such party, to her lover to visit. Felizia
will also not be difficult, especially because it is accompanied by
me and the guard will give it honors prove. 'He was immediately Felizia
call and informed her of his plan. She answered him that they put
their lives in his hands would be: "Know," she said, "that is less
fortunate for me is to keep it as it owes to you and to know that
you've taken the trouble, for me to care. " A fiery gaze that accompanied
these words, the feelings betrayed this passionate girl. It was not
time for long speeches. Felizia rushed to the instructions of the Count
to follow, and when she was dressed appropriately, she went on the
same path to the terrace of the Orangerie, as in the night, and as
Lorenzo Pierantonio killed. It rose in the garden, where the count was
preceded it and found him near the door to the vast plain beyond the
city walls led. They had the guard removed grade and this fact aided
the escape yet, because the previous one guard would have been surprised
could herald an arms, which she had not appeared, from the monastery
to go sehn. The Count and Felizia were in the streets of gold workers,
then he led them to a man who showed him much because he was once
before the galleys had saved. They changed their clothes, took her
daughter to the landlord and rode around midnight, two servants
of the Count accompanied one of his tenants, which they reached the
borders should accompany Bologna, where the friends had Buondelmonte.
There, she was finally safe. Then tried Graf Buondelonte [sic! instead:
Buondelmonte], even the gentle Rodelinde to save him and it was not
too hard because he CELIAS After key could use that one it had taken
away. The next morning the Bishop went back to the monastery and, as
the Count had previously suspected, the full horrors of the Inquisition
with it. He led the lawsuit against the nuns in the most severe
forms. This procedure did not last long and the guilty prelate invited
the sisters in the front room, where usually the choice of the abbess
held. The award was announced: Celia and Fabiana were condemned to die
by poison; others, the nuns dress and losing to the end of their
days in a jail to be thrown, and finally, the least were found
guilty, should have a captive endure for ten years. No sooner had this
lecture ended, as one of the prison, sentenced to life nuns ran to the
window, opened it and crashed into the garden, a durchstieß andre
the chest with a dagger. Terrible screams sounded and spread terror
throughout the monastery. The bishop had withdrawn, as the peace
was restored, and the clergy, which he had transferred his power gradually
to the painful part of his task, those of Celia and Fabiana concerned.
He made them in rough ideas about the way seriousness of the unrest,
which they had led and concluded by giving them said they would leave
this life to the anger of heaven to soothe. "But," he added, "Your
boss and your judges, which the nobility of your family and the dignity
of this place have taken into consideration, you wanted from the
full rigor of the spiritual Diszipin [sic! instead: discipline] and
you relieve the shame of a public ruling save operation, they have also,
according to the principles of mercy of Jesus Christ, decided to you
your days in the comprehensive of this sacred place finish - and by
the Schierlingstrank. "During this speech, looked at him with a
contemptuous Celia rigidly at rest. When he had ceased to speak,
she asked him just where the cup was poison. "Priest of a god of mercy,"
he replied, "I have only the sentence on the guilty to speak the
execution is entrusted to the lay brothers, you apply to this. "A
bodyguard of the clergy had two with this poison-filled cups,
Celia, he handed it to one of them took and Fabiana said:" Take
this flower of death that Hans Wurst of souls "- and she wrapped it
down to the last drop. The weaker Fabiana tears and took out
injunctions; Celia made her allegations about their devotion to such
an unhappy life and about their cowardice, which, as she said, the
equal of these men who are not ashamed of abandoned women all over
the world to murder . '[sic! surplus quote] Finally Fabiana dried
her tears, seized the moment as a big crisis and choked down the brew
and it drop by drop schlürfend. Meanwhile contributed Livia and a servant
to other lifeless body of the nun from the garden in, arising out
of the window had fallen. Celia as she noticed her entschlüpften the
words: "How happy she is no longer to live!" Then she said the two
servants of her gratitude for the devotion that she had shown
it Livia gave a diamond ring which she wore at the finger, to the
gift, and called on them to use the proceeds with her companion,
to share. The poison on its victims began to appear: Fabiana
rolled on the ground in fear of death; Celia remarked that the delegate
of the bishop and his people fühllose were witnesses to this drama:
"Go away!"

she exclaimed, "let us go away from your eyes to die!

Righteous God, do not extend our torment! "Finally, her natural
defeated by the pain, and she could no longer upright and fell to the
ground. In their agony spasms caused her rich black hair and fell over
her shoulders and chest which by their fierce movements were bared.
All, even the delegate, had taken pity, and perhaps also of regret
at the destruction of a part of nature so perfect to have had,
they were able to no longer endure the sight and went into an adjoining
room. "Never, perhaps," said the agent of the bishop, "there was an
indomitable spirit in a beautiful shell. What a pity!" Meanwhile
Felizia was in Bologna in all security has been placed. Graf
Buondelmonte not lined, his consolation to her, and they say that
this gentleman in the follow the journey from Florence to Bologna
often undertook. ACCORAMBONI VITTORIA TRANSFERRING FROM M. MUSIL
For me as for the reader, I regret that this is not a novel but the
faithful translation of a very sad report, in December 1585 in
Padua has been recorded.
Personal virtue and domestic economy a sufficiently hard task,
let alone that still graver task, the art of grinding masses of men
into virtue.

C6.8, fin. The false theory of ruling in vogue in Media: the /plus/ of
ease instead of the /plus/ of foresight and danger-loving endurance.
Cf. Walt Whitman.

C6.30. Is like the logical remark of a disputant in a Socratic
dialogue of the Alcibiades type, and §§ 31-33 a Socratic /mythos/ to
escape from the dilemma; the breakdown of this ideal /plus/ and
/minus/ righteousness due to the hardness of men's hearts and their
feeble intellects.

C6.31. Who is this ancient teacher or who is his prototype if he is an
ideal being? A sort of Socrates-Lycurgus? Or is Xenophon thinking of
the Spartan Crypteia?

C6.34. For /pleonexia/ and deceit in war, vide /Hipparch/., c. 5 [tr.
Works, Vol. III. Part II. p. 20]. Interesting and Hellenic, I think,
the mere raising of this sort of question; it might be done nowadays,
perhaps, with advantage /or/ disadvantage, less cant and more plain
brutality.

C6.39. Hunting devices applied: throws light on the date of the
/Cyropaedia/, after the Scilluntine days, probably. [After Xenophon
was exiled from Athens, his Spartan friends gave him a house and farm
at Scillus, a township in the Peloponnese, not far from Olympia. See
/Sketch of Xenophon's Life/, Works, Vol. I., p. cxxvi.]

C6.41, init. Colloquial exaggerated turn of phrase; almost "you could
wipe them off the earth."


BOOK II

[C.1] Thus they talked together, and thus they journeyed on until they
reached the frontier, and there a good omen met them: an eagle swept
into view on the right, and went before them as though to lead the
way, and they prayed the gods and heroes of the land to show them
favour and grant them safe entry, and then they crossed the boundary.
And when they were across, they prayed once more that the gods of
Media might receive them graciously, and when they had done this they
embraced each other, as father and son will, and Cambyses turned back
to his own city, but Cyrus went forward again, to his uncle Cyaxares
in the land of Media. [2] And when his journey was done and he was
face to face with him and they had greeted each other as kinsmen may,
then Cyaxares asked the prince how great an armament he had brought
with him? And Cyrus answered, "I have 30,000 with me, men who have
served with you before as mercenaries; and more are coming on behind,
fresh troops, from the Peers of Persia."

"How many of those?" asked Cyaxares. [3] And Cyrus answered, "Their
numbers will not please you, but remember these Peers of ours, though
they are few, find it easy to rule the rest of the Persians, who are
many. But now," he added, "have you any need of us at all? Perhaps it
was only a false alarm that troubled you, and the enemy are not
advancing?"

"Indeed they are," said the other, "and in full force."

[4] "How do you know?" asked Cyrus.

"Because," said he, "many deserters come to us, and all of them, in
one fashion or another, tell the same tale."

"Then we must give battle?" said Cyrus.

"Needs must," Cyaxares replied.

"Well," answered Cyrus, "but you have not told me yet how great their
power is, or our own either. I want to hear, if you can tell me, so
that we may make our plans."

"Listen, then," said Cyaxares. [5] "Croesus the Lydian is coming, we
hear, with 10,000 horse and more than 40,000 archers and targeteers.
Artamas the governor of Greater Phrygia is bringing, they say, 8000
horse, and lancers and targeteers also, 40,000 strong. Then there is
Aribaius the king of Cappadocia with 6000 horse and 30,000 archers and
targeteers. And Aragdus the Arabian with 10,000 horse, a hundred
chariots, and innumerable slingers. As for the Hellenes who dwell in
Asia, it is not clear as yet whether they will send a following or
not. But the Phrygians from the Hellespont, we are told, are mustering
in the Caystrian plain under Gabaidus, 6000 horse and 40,000
targeteers. Word has been sent to the Carians, Cilicians, and
Paphlagonians, but it is said they will not rise; the Lord of Assyria
and Babylon will himself, I believe, bring not less than 20,000 horse,
and I make no doubt as many as 200 chariots, and thousands upon
thousands of men on foot; such at least has been his custom whenever
he invaded us before.In short, the letter was written after having consumed a few attempts
sheets. - There is no appeal - said yes to D.

Luis - The die is cast. Value and here we go. Don Luis comforted his
spirit in the hope that it would be very calm and that God
would give her lips a torrent of eloquence, to persuade where
Pepita, it was so good that it prompted him to fulfill his vocation,
sacrificing worldly love and becoming like the holy women who have
been, which have not abandoned join a boyfriend or a lover, but to
join with the spouse, living with him as a brother, as, for example
in the life of St.

Edward, King of England.
Tell me first the methods of fighting that
the different troops adopt."

"They are much the same for all," answered Cyaxares, "that is to say,
their men and ours alike are armed with bows and javelins."

"Well," replied Cyrus, "if such arms are used, skirmishing at long
range must be the order of the day." "True," said the other. [8] "And
in that case," went on Cyrus, "the victory is in the hands of the
larger force; for even if the same numbers fall on either side, the
few would be exhausted long before the many." "If that be so," cried
Cyaxares, "there is nothing left for us but to send to Persia, and
make them see that if disaster falls on Media it will fall on Persia
next, and beg them for a larger force." "Ah, but," said Cyrus, "you
must remember that even if every single Persian were to come at once,
we could not outnumber our enemies." [9] "But," said the other, "can
you see anything else to be done?" Aquis submersus Theodor Storm novel
(1876) In our earlier to the ducal palace belonging, but in living
memory totally neglected "Castle Garden" were already in my boyhood
in the once old French styles ranging Hagebuchenhecken with thin,
ghostly avenues maturity, however, because they are still some leaves
bear, so we know the local, through foliage of the trees is not
spoiled, they nevertheless also in this form to estimate, and
because of us thoughtful people will always one or the other there to
meet his. We then under the meager shade after the so-called "mountain"
to wander, a small hill in the northwestern corner of the garden
above the dry bed of a fish pond, where the broadest view nothing
stands in the way.

Most might look to the West to adjust to the bright green of the
marshes and darüberhin to the silver flood of the sea to amuse, to which
the elongated shadow of the floating island, my eyes involuntarily
turn to the north, where barely one miles away, the gray church tower
from the spitze higher situated, but barren coastal land rises,
because there is one of the sites of my youth. The pastor's son from
the village that I visited with the "scholar's school" my father city,
and countless times we are on Saturday afternoons together dahinaus
wandered, and then on Sunday evening or early Monday to our Nepos
or later Cicero to our return to the city. It was then in the middle
of the road, a piece of good heath left unbroken, as they once referred
to one side until almost to the town, just after the other against the
village had. Here buzzing in the flowers of the fragrant heather gray
and white immense bumblebees and ran among the barren stems of the same
beautiful gold-green beetles, where the scent of heather and clouds
of butterflies floated resinous Gagelstrauches which nowhere else could
be found.

My parents' home, the impatient zustrebender his friend had often love
misery, his dreamy comrades by all the glories with fortzubringen, we
had grown, but the field is reached, then it was also about the mood
in forward, and soon, if we just only the long Sandweg hinaufwateten,
we already saw above the dark green of the lilac hedge the gable of the
house pastor, the pastor of the study, with its small blind
windows on the well-known guests hinabgrüßte. The pastor people, whose
only child was my friend, we had all the time, as Here we say, five
quarters in the yard, quite apart from the wonderful natural food.
Only the silver poplar, the only high and therefore also the only
tempting tree of the village, which their branches well above the mossy
piece of straw roof was rushing, was the same as the apple of paradise
we banned and was therefore only of us secretly climbed otherwise was
much I correctly, everything was permitted and indeed in our age
group the best of us exploited.

The main venue of our actions was the big "Koppel priest," with a gate
leading from the garden. Here we knew with the instincts of the boys
offered the nests of skylarks and Grauammern track, which we then
repeated the visit in order to see how far in the last two hours
the eggs or young are now thrived here on a deep and as I now
believe, not less dangerous than those poplar water pit, which brim
with old Weidenstümpfen was tight circumstances, we started the
deft black beetle, which we call "water Frenchman called it, or we
did another one on our specially designed, built navy yard from
walnut-shell box lids and swim.

In late summer it was also well aware that we learn from our paddock
after a raid of Kuesters garden made, which compared to the vicarage
on the other side of the water pit was, because there we had two
apple trees stunted our Tenth einzuheimsen what we admittedly
occasionally a friendly threat from the good-natured old man received
.-- So many joys of youth grew on this priest Koppel, whose arid
sandy soil other flowers would not thrive, and only the sharp scent
of goldknopfigen Rainfarren who haufenweis on all walls were, I still
feel today in the memories, those times when my life. But all this
is only temporarily employed, my constant attendance on the other
hand, attracted to another, which we own nothing in the city to the
site had set. - I am not about the buildings of the tube Lehmwespen,
anywhere from the wall joints of the building stands out, although
it was graceful enough in contemplative lunch hour off and fly the busy
creatures to observe, I am referring to the much larger construction
of the old and unusually stately village church. Up to the shingled
roof of the tower, she was high from the ground up granite blocks set
up and dominated at the highest point of the village is uplifting
to-wide review on heath, marsh and beach .-- The greatest attraction
for me, however, had the interior of the church ; already immense key,
which by the Apostle Peter himself to come seemed excited my
imagination. And in fact, he even opened, we will be happy if the
old sexton had abgewonnen, the gateway to some wonderful things, from
which a long past time here as dark, then with devout childlike eyes,
but always in mysterious silence us alive aufblickte.

As was in the middle of the church down a terribly superhuman Crucifixus,
whose gaunt limbs and distorted face with blood überrieselt were on
the side of a wall pier adhered like a nest braungeschnitzte the pulpit,
at the fruit and from Blattgewinden all sorts of animals and is
Teufelsfratzen hervorzudrängen seemed.

Special attraction but had the great carved altar cabinet in the choir
of the church, on the painted figures in the Passion of Christ was
depicted so strange wild faces, like that of Caiaphas, or the servants
of the war, which in its golden armor to the crucified roller coat,
got you out in life not to see, so comforting Holde contrasted only
the face of the crosses on hingesunkenen Maria; yes, they would
easily my heart boy with a fantastic tendency entangled best, if
not another with even greater allure of mystery myself by it would
have been deducted.

Among all these strange or even disagreeable things probably hung in
the aisle of the church, the innocent image of a dead child, a
beautiful five year old boy who, on a pillow with lace occupied
dormant, a white water lily in his small pale hands held . From the
gentle face said, besides the horror of death, as hülfeflehend, one
last Holde trace of life, an irresistible infested pity me when I stood
before this picture. But it was not alone here; also looked tight
from a dark brown wooden frame , schwarzbärtiger man in a priest collar
and Sammar. My friend told me that it was the father of that
beautiful boy and this itself, so today was a legend, should be
used in the water pit our priests Koppel his death have found.

In the context we read the year 1666, which was long ago. Again and
again it took me to these two pictures, a great desire seized me
by the life and death of the child shall be a further, albeit still
so sparse customer to obtain, even from the sinister countenance of the
father, despite the priest collar myself almost on the servants of the
altar of war cabinet gemahnen wanted, I looked for it herauszulesen.
- According to such studies in the twilight of the old church
appeared to be the house of the good pastor to people just so
hospitable. Admittedly, it was equally high years, and the father
of my friend hoped as long as I could imagine, on a new building,
but as the Küsterei at the same age suffering from weakness, it was
neither here nor there .-- And yet built, as were friendly but the
rooms of the old house in winter, the small office right in the summer
left of the larger hallway, where the Reformation almanacs cut images
in Mahagonirähmchen at the whitewashed wall hung, where one out of
the western window only a distant windmill, but also the whole wide
sky in front of you had dinner in the rose-colored slip transformed
and then the whole room überglänzte! The loving pastor who armchairs
with plush red cushions, the old deep sofa, on the table at the
dinner sausende confidential Kettle - it was all bright, friendly
presence. Only one evening - we were already being Sekundaner - the
thought came to me, what a past like these rooms, not even if those
dead boy once with fresh cheeks here umhergesprungen lives in bodily
form, whose portrait now like a wistful Holden Tell dark room filled
church. reason to give such thoughtfulness liked that I am afternoons,
where we drive on my once again visited the church had, down in a
dark corner of the image four with red ink-written letters had discovered
that I had until now escaped . CPAS you read, "I said to the father
of my friend," but we can not unravel. " "Well," replied that "the
inscription is well known to me, and takes you to the rumor Hülfe
so want the two most recent letters with Aquis submersus, ie with
'drowning' or literally 'immersed in the water' to indicate his; only
with the previous CP would then still in a predicament!

The young adjunktus our Kuesters, once the Quarta happened, says although
it could be Casu periculoso -'Durch dangerous Zufall' - hot, but
the old men of the time logical thought, and if the boy is drowned,
it was the chance not only just dangerous. "I was eager to listen. "Casu
'I said," it could also probably' Culpa 'mean? "" Culpa? " repeated
the pastor. "Due to debt - but whose fault?" Then came the dark
picture of the old preacher to me before the soul, and without
much reflect I cried: "Why not: patris Culpa?" The good pastor
was almost frightened. "Ei, ei, my young friend," he said and raised
his finger warningly against me. "Through the fault of the father? -
So we want to, despite his dismal reputation blessed my brother,
the official but not blame. Also, he would most like difficult for
themselves if necessary." This latter would also be obvious to my
adolescent understanding, and remained so because the actual meaning
of the inscription remains a mystery of the past. That way, those
two images is also essential in painting some old preacher excelled
portraits, which hung next to it was already clear to myself, but
that experts in the painter an efficient altholländischer masters
students wanted to know, I certainly learned by now the father of
my friend. However, such a poor village in this sly, or where it
came and how he had told, he also knew about me nothing to say. The
pictures themselves contained neither a name nor a sign painter. The
years went out. While we visited the University, died of the good pastor,
and the mother of my school comrades followed later her son on his
Pfarrstelle been reached elsewhere, and I had no more, after that walk
to the village .-- Since, as I myself have my father in town resident
was, it happened that I voted for the son of a relative a student
neighborhood with good public citizens had to pay.

The youth do own, I strolled in the afternoon sun shines through the
streets as me at the corner of the market over the door of an old house
a platform hochgegiebelten German inscription in the eye was the
verhochdeutscht some would read: Just as smoke and dust verschwindt,
So are also the human child. The words for young eyes might well not
be visible, because I had never noticed, whenever I am in my school
give me a wake-up at the Hot resident had brought the baker. Almost
involuntarily I stepped into the house, and in Indeed, it was a
sub-Come here for the young cousin. The cellar of their old "Möddersch"
(mother's sister) - then told me the friendly masters - from whom
they inherited the house and holding would have stood empty for
years, long, they had a young guest wanted to.

I was hinaufgeführt stairs, and then we entered a rather low, archaic
furnished room, whose two windows with their small wheels on the
spacious square beyond. Previously, told the Master, were two ancient
lime trees in front of the door was, but he did beat them, because they
are too much into the house gedunkelt and also the beautiful view
had completely obscured. The conditions we were soon in all parts
agree, while but then we still have to be taken now, the
organization of the room said, was my view of a cabinet in the shade
of a hanging oil paintings like the sudden my whole attention
hinwegnahm. It was still well preserved and has an older, serious and
mild-looking man, in a dark dress, as in the middle of the seventeenth
century, they make those from the stands to take care of, which
deals more with state matters or things as taught by the war crafts
employed. The head of the old gentleman, so beautiful and attractive
and so he painted splendid always liked, however, had no
such excitement in me emerged, but the painter had him a pale boy in
the arm laid in his small, flaccid hanging a white hand-held water
lily, and this boy I knew so long ago. Again, it was probably the
death of his eyes had zugedrückt. "Where is this picture?" I finally
asked, because I was suddenly aware that the master standing in
front of me with his dispute was held.

He looked at me puzzled. "The old image? This is from our Möddersch,
"he replied," it comes from their Urgroßonkel, a painter and had over
a hundred years ago lived here. There are seven other things from
him since.

"With these words he showed after a small load of oak wood, on which
all sorts of geometric figures incised were quite delicate., When I
of the barrier on which they stood, herunternahm dropped the lid
back and it showed me as the content of some heavily yellowed sheets
of paper with a very old lettering.

"May I read the sheets?" I asked. "If it makes you Pläsier," replied the
master, "so do you like the whole thing to take home there are
ancient writings, is not worth it. "But I asked myself and also received
permission to these worthless writings here on the spot to be
able to read, and while I was over the old image into a powerful set
Ohrenlehnstuhl left the master's room, still surprised, but nevertheless
the promise of friendly back leaving that his wife me soon with a
good cup of coffee will regulate. But I read in reading and had soon
everything around me forget it. So I was back home because Holsten
in our country and on Sundays it was Cantate Anno 1661 - My Malgeräth
and other luggage I had in the city left behind and walked cheerfully
fürbaß now, the road through the green Maien Buchenwald, which the
country goes into the lake. Before me flew now and then a few Waldvöglein
and letzeten their thirst in the water so deep into the Radgeleisen
hours; Linder because rain had fallen overnight and it did early in the
morning, so that the sun shade the forest still had not exceeded. The
bright throttle hit , of the glades to me Scholl, found its echo
in my heart. The orders, as my master Theurer van der Helst in the last
years of my stay I zugewendet Amsterdam, I was all concerned Quitt
become a good Zehrpfennig and a change to Hamburg still itzt I
wore in my pockets, which I was handsome angethan: my hair fell on my
coat with fine Grauwerk, and the sword was missing Lütticher not on
my hip. My thoughts but rushed ahead of me, I always saw Mr
Gerhardus, my noble large favorable Protector, as proposed by the
threshold of his room my hands würd 'opposite track, with its mild
greeting: "So God bless your input, my John!" He had once with my love,
ah, even early in the eternal glory of the envisaged father to the
rights of Jena studiret and was also nachmals the arts and sciences
obgelegen with diligence, so that he blessed the High Duke Friederich
in his fine, although because of the Kriegsläufte futile efforts to
establishing a state university eager to inspect and Berather
been. Although a single aristocratic family man He was my dear father,
but always in zugethan remained faithful, even after it had blessed
step in my youth verwaiseten more than to verhoffen, and not just my
thrifty aufgebessert resources, but also by its fürnehme acquaintance
among the Dutch nobility is then brought to my master Theuermann
van der Helst me to his students accepted. but I thought to know
that the ladies man unharmed, sitting on his mansion, which the
Almighty is not enough to thank, because, while I am in a foreign
art zeal , was at home the horrors of war over the country come,
so while that troops who oppose the kriegswüthigen Sweden assisted
the king to hergezogen, almost worse than the enemies themselves
gehauset and even the servant of God in several miserable death.

Due to the sudden step of the Swedish Carolus was now in peace, but
the savage stomp of war were everywhere, many a farmer or Käthnerhaus,
where I found myself as a boy with a sweet drink milk bewirthet, I had
on my morning walk on the paths niedergesenget are seen and some field
in Edema weed it otherwise at this time of rye drove his green peaks.
But such beschwerete me not too much today, I had only a desire, as
I have the noble Lord through my art wants to prove that he Was in favor
and no undignified've wasted ; thought not lost on hoodlums and
rabble, the wars of her still in the woods should machinations.
tückete But another me, and that was the thought of Junker Wulf.
He had me hold never been, was probably even, what his noble father
done to me, as a theft from his own views, and sometimes when I, as
often after my dear father's death, in the summer on the Good Vacanze
zubrachte, he had me the beautiful days vergället and salinisation.
Whether he anitzt in his father's home was, it was not known to me
has had only heard that he had before the game in peace and cups with
the traffic officer held Swedish, what right Holsten loyalty is not
to rhyme. Diess By looking at me considered, I was out of the beech
forest in the indicative Tannenstrasse climb through the match
progressed, which is already close to the court. How lovely reminder
umhauchte me the scent of spicy resin, but soon as I stepped from
the shadows into the full sunshine addition, there were on both
sides with hazel bushes eingehegten meadows, and not long, so I
wandered between the rows of huge oak trees zwo to the manor
hinaufführen.

I do not know what a bang suddenly feeling overcome me, Ohn all
causes, as I now thought, because it was vain sunshine around, and
from heaven sounded quite charming and warmly encouraging Lerch singing.
And behold, there on the paddock, where his Immenhof Hofmann has
also stood the old wooden pear tree and whispered with his young
leaves in the blue air. "Grüß you God!" I said, powerful, but thought
less of the tree, rather than the Holden creature of God, in which,
as it had to add nachmals all happiness and suffering and all gnawing
repent of my life should be decided, for now and all time. That was
Mr Gerhardus the noble daughter, the Junkers Wulfen only siblings.

"Perhaps it would be best, gentlemen," said Cyrus in answer, "to bring
the matter before the army in council and put it to them, whether, if
God grant us success, we should let all share and share alike, or
distribute the rewards and honours in proportion to the deserts of
each."

[19] "But why," asked Chrysantas, "why discuss the point? Why not
simply issue a general order that you intend to do this? Was not that
enough in the case of the competitions?"

"Doubtless," Cyrus answered, "but this case is different. The troops,
I take it, will feel that all they win by their services on the
campaign should belong to them in common: but they hold that the
actual command of the expedition was mine by right even before we left
home, so that I was fully entitled, on their view, to appoint umpires
and judges at my own will."

[20] "And do you really expect," asked Chrysantas, "that the mass of
the army will pass a resolution giving up the right of all to an equal
share in order that the best men should receive the most?"

"Yes, I do," said Cyrus, "partly because we shall be there to argue
for that course, but chiefly because it would seem too base to deny
that he who works the hardest and does most for the common good
deserves the highest recompense. Even the worst of men must admit that
the brave should gain the most."

[21] It was, however, as much for the sake of the Peers themselves as
for any other reason that Cyrus wished the resolution to be passed.
They would prove all the better men, he thought, if they too were to
be judged by their deeds and rewarded accordingly. And this was the
right moment, he felt, to raise the question and put it to the vote,
now when the Peers were disposed to resent being put on a level with
the common people. In the end it was agreed by all the company that
the question should be raised, and that every one who claimed to call
himself a man was bound to argue in its favour.

[22] And on that one of the brigadiers smiled to himself and said: "I
know at least one son of the soil who will be ready to agree that the
principle of share and share alike should not be followed everywhere."

"And who is he?" another asked.

"Well," said the first, "he is a member of our quarters, I can tell
you that, and he is always hunting after the lion's share of every
single thing."

"What? Of everything?" said a third. "Of work as well?" "Oh, no!" said
the first, "you have caught me there. I was wrong to say so much, I
must confess. When it comes to work, I must admit, he is quite ready
to go short: he will give up his own share of that, without a murmur,
to any man whatever."

[23] "For my part, gentlemen," said Cyrus, "I hold that all such
idlers ought to be turned out of the army, that is, if we are ever to
cultivate obedience and energy in our men. The bulk of our soldiers, I
take it, are of the type to follow a given lead: they will seek after
nobleness and valour if their leaders are valiant and noble, but after
baseness if these are base. [24] And we know that only too often the
worthless will find more friends than the good. Vice, passing lightly
along her path of pleasure, wins the hearts of thousands with her
gifts; but Virtue, toiling up the steep ascent, has little skill to
snare the souls of men and draw them after her, when all the while
their comrades are calling to them on the easy downward way. [25] It
is true there are degrees, and where the evil springs only from sloth
and lethargy, I look on the creatures as mere drones, only injuring
the hive by what they cost: but there are others, backward in toil and
forward in greed, and these are the captains in villainy: for not
seldom can they show that rascality has its advantages. Such as they
must be removed, cut out from among us, root and branch. [26] And I
would not have you fill their places from our fellow-citizens alone,
but, just as you choose your horses from the best stocks, wherever you
find them, not limiting yourselves to the national breed, so you have
all mankind before you, and you should choose those, and those only,
who will increase your power and add to your honour. Let me clinch my
argument by examples: no chariot can travel fast if the horses in the
team are slow, or run straight if they will not be ruled; no house can
stand firm if the household is evil: better empty walls than traitors
who will bring it to the ground.

[27] "And be sure, my friends," he added, "the removal of the bad
means a benefit beyond the sheer relief that they are taken away and
will trouble us no more: those who are left and were ripe for
contagion are purified, and those who were worthy will cleave to
virtue all the closer when they see the dishonour that falls on
wickedness."

[28] So Cyrus spoke, and his words won the praise of all his friends,
and they set themselves to do as he advised.

But after that Cyrus began to jest again. His eye fell on a certain
captain who had chosen for his comrade at the feast a great hairy lad,
a veritable monster of ugliness, and Cyrus called to the captain by
name: "How now, Sambulas? Have you adopted the Hellenic fashion too?
And will you roam the world together, you and the lad who sits beside
you, because there is none so fair as he?" "By heaven," answered
Sambulas, "you are not far wrong. It is bliss to me to feast my eyes
upon him." [29] At that all the guests turned and looked on the young
man's face, but when they saw how ugly it was, they could not help
laughing outright. "Heavens, Sambulas, tell us the valiant deed that
knit your souls together! How has he drawn you to himself?" [30]
"Listen then," he answered, "and I will tell you the whole truth.
Every time I call him, morning, noon, or night, he comes to me; never
yet has he excused himself, never been too busy to attend; and he
comes at a run, he does not walk. Whatever I have bidden him do, he
has always done it, and at the top of his speed. He has made all the
petty captains under him the very models of industry; he shows them,
not by word but deed, what they ought to be." [31] "And so," said
another, "for all these virtues you give him, I take it, the kiss of
kinship?" But the ugly lad broke out: "Not he! He has no great love
for work. And to kiss me, if it came to that, would mean more effort
than all his exercises."

[C.3] So the hours passed in the general's tent, from grave to gay,
until at last the third libation was poured out, and the company bent
in prayer to the gods--"Grant us all that is good"--and so broke up,
and went away to sleep.

But the next day Cyrus assembled the soldiers in full conclave, and
spoke to them: [2] "My men," he said, "my friends, the day of struggle
is at hand, and the enemy are near. The prizes of victory, if victory
is to be ours--and we must believe it will be ours, we must make it
ours--the prizes of victory will be nothing short of the enemy himself
and all that he possesses. And if the victory should be his, then, in
like manner, all the goods of the vanquished must lie at the victor's
feet. [3] Therefore I would have you take this to your hearts:
wherever those who have joined together for war remember that unless
each and every one of them play his part with zeal nothing good can
follow; there we may look for glorious success. For there nothing that
ought to be done will be left undone. But if each man thinks 'My
neighbour will toil and fight, even though my own heart should fail
and my own arm fall slack,' then, believe me, disaster is at the door
for each and all alike, and no man shall escape. [4] Such is the
ordinance of God: those who will not work out their own salvation he
gives into the hands of other men to bear rule over them. And now I
call on any man here," he added, "to stand up and say whether he
believes that virtue will best be nourished among us if he who bears
the greatest toil and takes the heaviest risk shall receive the
highest honours. Or whether we should hold that cowardice makes no
difference in the end, seeing that we all must share alike?"

[5] Thereupon Chrysantas of the Peers rose up. He was a man of
understanding, but his bodily presence was weak. And now he spoke
thus:

"I do not imagine, Cyrus, that you put this question with any belief
that cowards ought really to receive the same share as the brave. No,
you wished to make trial of us and see whether any man would dare to
claim an equal part in all that his fellows win by their nobleness,
though he never struck a single valiant stroke himself. [6] I myself,"
he continued, "am neither fleet of foot nor stout of limb, and for
aught I can do with my body, I perceive that on the day of trial
neither the first place nor the second can be mine, no, nor yet the
hundredth, nor even, it may be, the thousandth. But this I know right
well, that if our mighty men put forth all their strength, I too shall
receive such portion of our blessings as I may deserve. But if the
cowards sit at ease and the good and brave are out of heart, then I
fear that I shall get a portion, a larger than I care to think, of
something that is no blessing but a curse."

[7] And so spoke Chrysantas, and then Pheraulas stood up. He was a man
of the people, but well known to Cyrus in the old days at home and
well-beloved by him: no mean figure to look at, and in soul like a man
of noble birth. Now he spoke as follows:

[8] "Cyrus, friends, and Persians, I hold to the belief that on this
day we all start equal in that race where valour is the goal. I speak
of what I see: we are trained on the same fare; we are held worthy of
the same comradeship; we contend for the same rewards. All of us alike
are told to obey our leaders, and he who obeys most frankly never
fails to meet with honour at the hands of Cyrus. Valour is no longer
the privilege of one class alone: it has become the fairest prize that
can fall to the lot of any man. [9] And to-day a battle is before us
where no man need teach us how to fight: we have the trick of it by
nature, as a bull knows how to use his horns, or a horse his hoofs, or
a dog his teeth, or a wild boar his tusks. The animals know well
enough," he added, "when and where to guard themselves: they need no
master to tell them that. [10] I myself, when I was a little lad, I
knew by instinct how to shield myself from the blow I saw descending:
if I had nothing else, I had my two fists, and used them with all my
force against my foe: no one taught me how to do it, on the contrary
they beat me if they saw me clench my fists. And a knife, I remember,
I never could resist: I clutched the thing whenever I caught sight of
it: not a soul showed me how to hold it, only nature herself, I do
aver. I did it, not because I was taught to do it, but in spite of
being forbidden, like many another thing to which nature drove me, in
spite of my father and mother both. Yes, and I was never tired of
hacking and hewing with my knife whenever I got the chance: it did not
seem merely natural, like walking or running, it was positive joy.
[11] Well, to-day we are to fight in this same simple fashion: energy,
rather than skill, is called for, and glorious it will be to match
ourselves against our friends, the Peers of Persia. And let us
remember that the same prizes are offered to us all, but the stakes
differ: our friends give up a life of honour, the sweetest life there
can be, but we escape from years of toil and ignominy, and there can
be no life worse than that. [12] And what fires me most of all, my
friends, and sends me into the lists most gladly, is the thought that
Cyrus will be our judge: one who will give no partial verdict. Do not
miss. At ten o'clock at night. Would the door. Antoñona and ran away
under the stairs two by two steps and was planted in the street. * * *
* * There is no denying that he was discreet Antoñona on this occasion,
and even their language was so worthy and urban, that do not qualify
him to miss apocryphal, but knowing as all this evidence here
is concerned, and if it does not further the wonders that can ingénito
the clearance of a woman, when she serves as a stimulus a great
interest or passion. Grande was indeed the affection of Antoñona for
his girl, and seeing as so desperate and in love, could not seek
to remedy its ills. The appointment, just commit to D. Luis was an
unexpected triumph. So Antoñona in order to take advantage of the
victory, had to have all of a sudden, deep, worldly science.
Antoñona He noted the time for the appointment of ten in the
evening because it was when the old and already deleted gathering or
suspended in D. Luis and Pepita often seen. The signal to prevent
further murmurings and scandal, because she had heard from a
preacher who, according to the Gospel, there is nothing so bad as
the scandal and the scandal is a need to throw into the sea with a
mill stone tied to the neck .

Volvió therefore Antoñona home of its owner, very pleased with
herself and very determined to have things with wisdom so that
the relief sought would not be useless, or not to aggravate the evil
instead of Pepita sanarle.

A Pepita not found or thought but to prevent the latter, saying that
D. Luis spontaneously asked him time to make a farewell visit and that
she had said the ten. In order not originate hearsay, if the
house had come to D. Luis, no thought of seeing him enter, and it
was also very propitious time, and the layout of the house. A ten
would be crowded in the evening the street and therefore less repair
Luis when she passed by. Entering the hall would be a second book, and
she would be waiting there, leading to D. Luis to the office,
without anyone seeing him. All or most of the houses of the villagers
of Andalusia ricachos are like two houses instead of one, and so was
the house of Pepita. Each house has its door. It is passed to the
main courtyard with paving and columns, to the chambers and other
rooms señoriles, on the other hand, pens, stables and garage,
kitchen, mill, press, barns, Trojan which retains the oil until it is
crushed ; warehouses where we store the oil, juice, wine burning, spirits
and vinegar in large jars and candioteras or warehouses, where it
is in the pipes and drums, and made good wine or stale. This
second part of house or home, even in the middle of a population of
twenty or twenty-five thousand souls, is called the house.
But at the feast many of the guests wore bandages, some on
their hands, others on their legs, and Cyrus saw it and asked what had
befallen them. They told him they had been bruised by the clods. [20]
"At close quarters?" said he, "or at long range?" "At long range,"
they answered, and all the club-bearers agreed that when it came to
close quarters, they had the finest sport. But here those who had been
carbonaded by that weapon broke in and protested loudly that it was
anything but sport to be clubbed at short range, and in proof thereof
they showed the weals on hand and neck and face. Thus they laughed at
one another as soldiers will; and on the next day the whole plain was
studded with combats of this type, and whenever the army had nothing
more serious in hand, this sport was their delight.

[21] Another day Cyrus noticed a brigadier who was marching his
regiment up from the river back to their quarters. They were advancing
in single file on his left, and at the proper moment he ordered the
second company to wheel round and draw up to the front alongside the
first, and then the third, and then the fourth; and when the company-
captains were all abreast, he passed the word along, "Companies in
twos," and the captains-of-ten came into line; and then at the right
moment he gave the order, "Companies in fours," and the captains of
five wheeled round and came abreast, and when they reached the tent
doors he called a halt, made them fall into single file once more, and
marched the first company in first, and then the second at its heels,
and the third and fourth behind them, and as he introduced them, he
seated them at the table, keeping the order of their entry. What Cyrus
commended was the quiet method of instruction and the care the officer
showed, and it was for that he invited him and all his regiment to
dinner in the royal tent.

[22] Now it chanced that another brigadier was among the guests, and
he spoke up and said to Cyrus: "But will you never ask my men to
dinner too? Day after day, morning and evening, whenever we come in
for a meal we do just the same as they, and when the meal is over the
hindmost man of the last company leads out his men with their
fighting-order reversed, and the next company follows, led by their
hindmost man, and then the third, and then the fourth: so that all of
them, if they have to retire before an enemy, will know how to fall
back in good order. And as soon as we are drawn up on the parade-
ground we set off marching east, and I lead off with all my divisions
behind me, in their regular order, waiting for my word. By-and-by we
march west, and then the hindmost man of the last division leads the
way, but they must still look to me for commands, though I am marching
last: and thus they learn to obey with equal promptitude whether I am
at the head or in the rear."

[23] "Do you mean to tell me," said Cyrus, "that this is a regular
rule of yours?"

"Truly yes," he answered, "as regular as our meals, heaven help us!"

"Then I hereby invite you all to dinner, and for three good reasons;
you practice your drill in both forms, you do this morning and evening
both, and by your marching and counter-marching you train your bodies
and benefit your souls. And since you do it all twice over every day,
it is only fair to give you dinner twice.He has just called - twice, terrible, and he lifted the stick and
all.

"And Miezchen drove very excited with her arms in the air. But suddenly
she was silent, and quickly drove down with her arms up under the
table and was quite blutrot become.

And Otto sat opposite her and threw her to be angry glances. "What a
strange exaltation of my birthday?" asked the astonished father. "On
the table, my daughter yells out as if you wanted to kill them, and
under the table gives me my son so horrible boots bumps, bruises
that I get.

I would like to know Otto, where you think this is a pleasant
entertainment've learned. "Now it was the turn of Otto, feuerrot to
be under the hair up.

He had the Miezchen under the table, some want to give clear warnings
that it should remain silent, had but hit the wrong place with
his boot and the leg of the father worked. This had now discovered
Otto.

He could no longer aufschauen. "Well, Miezchen," the father began
again, "what's in your robbers story? You did not even come to an
end. So - 'Artichoke', the dreadful man you called the Plug and
collected, and then? "" Then, then, "stuttered Miezchen sheepishly,
because it had understood that it is all at once betrayed and that
of Otto Hahn reclaim the sugar would, "then he has not killed me yet."
"So that was nice of him," said the father, laughing. "And then?"
"Then nothing more," whimpered Miezchen. "So, so, the History is
thus a happy end. The insert remains in the air and goes Miezchen
artichoke as a small home. Now we want to trigger the same to all
well-advised to artichokes and Schreiner Andres' health! "So the
father brought his glass, and the company agreed to table.
It was all a bit but still on the table, because in all sorts of
thoughts were each Ascended. Only the father was left, sat down at his
newspaper and put on a cigar. Otto tiptoed across the room to
another, manifesting itself in a corner and thought about how it would
be if all the other back in the moonlight tobogganing and he would
never again it should be. Because he knew that the mother of this
from now on would prohibit. Miezchen crept into the bedroom inside,
crouched beside the bed on the low stool Chen, took the red rooster
sugar on the lap and was very sad that it is him should see last
time. The mother stayed for a time thoughtfully at the window. They
thought they had more and more exciting, because now she started at
in the room back and forth to go. And suddenly she left it and ran
here and there, looked for the Miezchen. They finally found it
behind his bed on the stool in his sad sunken considerations.

"Miezchen," said the mother, "Now tell me where and when you threatened
a man and what he has nachgerufen you." Miezchen told what it knew,
but it can not be out much longer than it already had said Nachgerufen
the man had given him the word that Dad had said at the table, it is
claimed. The mother went into the back room, where the father sat ,
went to him and said in excited tone: "I must tell you truly, it is
increasingly likely to me before." The Colonel put away his newspaper
and looked astonished at his wife. "You see," she continued, "the scene
at the table asked me to put a thought, and the more I pursued him,
he ever fixed before my eyes. "" Sit down yet and tell me what you mean,
"said the colonel, quite curious. His wife sat down beside him and
continued: "You have seen Miezchens excitement, she was visibly
shocked by the man was, of whom she spoke. It has not been fun.
Therefore, it is clear that he is not the child 'Artichoke' called.
If he is not much more 'aristocrat' or 'Aristokratenbrut' mentioned?
You know who we earlier this title nachrief, my brother and me.

This moment of Miezchen I have heard that the incident in the evening
had occurred, as children in the moonlight on the sled track was.

On the same evening, was found slain Andres half. For years, the
uncanny Jörg disappeared. And at first sight, because once again
traces of him, his brother attacked, which no other ever done
anything as he has.

Are you not even to think? "" Because what could be tuned, "said the
Colonel, thoughtfully." Then I must immediately take action. "He stood
up, called his servant, and a few minutes later he drove in
sharp trot to city down. From then on, the colonel went once every
day in the city, to hear whether reports had been received. On the
fourth day, the evening when he came home and his wife still sat
Miezchens bed, he let it go quickly, because he had her something
important to tell.

They sat down together, and the colonel told his wife what in the town
he had heard. In his statements to the police had secretly Jörg
sought after, and he was easily found. Because he was quite sure
that no one had seen him since he was only at night in his village
and came right back had disappeared. So he was initially only to
the city hinuntergegangen and had in the inns herumgetrieben. So
when he was arrested and interrogated, he initially denied
everything. But when he heard the Colonel Knight was beating submit
evidence against him because he represented the courage. Because he
thought the Lord Colonel must have seen him, or else it would be
impossible, just that he would come to him because he fresh from
Neapolitan war services came back. That a single word he a small child
had been called, had betrayed him to which he had no idea. He
then began to awful on the Colonel to rant, and said he had always
thought this would Aristokratenbrut him into bring misfortune. In
further questioning he confessed that he had his brother, attention and
money from him to borrow. When he lit it through the window, saw, as
he just a good sum in front of him was because he came to the idea
that Andres and slam down the money to take. Kill him he did not want
just a little unconsciously, so that it does not know. The bulk
of the total was still in his place. That he was removed, and Jörg was
put in jail. As this process is known, there was a tremendous excitement
throughout the village, because such a story has never occurred
which, since it existed. Especially in the school came from all of
the policy, so much interested in all students for the exciting event.
Otto was a few days completely out of breath, as he constantly since
and there had to run, where there is still further fact of the matter
was heard. On the third evening after the dissemination of the
message but he came home so excited after having that it admonish the
mother had only a moment to sit quietly, as he breathlessness demographic
aging and not a word seems to be quite a novelty back wanted to
tell. Finally, he could get rid of them. It was the Joggi, who until
then had remained locked up, want to get out.

But the poor are afraid drip, and now he believed it to fetch him from
the heads. He refused to leave the chamber. Then, two men with him
all herausgeschleppt violence, but he had geschrien so that all
people herbeiliefen. And then he had feared even more, and suddenly
he was shot like an arrow and in the next barn, into the farthest
corner of the stall. As he crouched together quite Unken with a terribly
startled face, and no man could him from bringing the body.
Ever since yesterday, so he crouched there, and the farmer had said
that if he does not stand up soon, he wanted him with the pitchfork
will continue. "This is indeed a very sad story, children," said the
mother, as Otto had finished telling. "The poor Joggi What he must
now suffer in his anxiety to him nobody can take away because he does
not understand what he could explain.

And the poor, good-natured Joggi is quite innocent. Oh, children,
it would have me equal to the whole experience tells her as the
evening of the sled train came. Your secrecy has brought only
misfortune. Could we have the poor people to comfort and make merry
once again! "That was quite Miezchen chickened out. "I want him to give
red rooster sugar," she said sobbing. Otto was also a little contrite.
He said somewhat scornfully: "Yes, a sugar cock adult people! Keep
you only for you." But then he asked the mother, he and Miezchen to
allow the Joggi something to eat in the barn to bring. He had had
nothing since he crouched there, two whole days.

This allowed the mother likes, and it was immediately brought a basket
and sausage and bread and cheese into it. Then the children went down
the hill to the stable. With a very white, startled face crouching in
the rear Joggi angle and is not stemmed. The kids came a little closer.
Otto showed him the open basket and said: "Come out, Joggi, that's all
for you to eat." Joggi did not move. "Komm doch, Joggi" said Otto
continues. "You see, otherwise the farmer and beats you with the
pitchfork out." Joggi was a horrified tone, and is still bent closer.
Now Miezchen went forward and came very close to the Joggi up,
held his mouth to his ear and whispered into it: "Come thou with
me, Joggi, they can not behead you.

The Dad will help you know, and you'll see that Christkindlein has sent
you a red rooster brought sugar. " And Miezchen took quite secretly tap
the sugar from his pocket and put it to the Joggi too. This secret
Trostesworte had a wonderfully effective force. The Joggi looked
at the Miezchen, without fear, then he looked at his red sugar Hahn.
And then he began to laugh, what he has for many days, no longer did.
Then he stood up, and now went forward from the Otto stall, then
came the Miezchen, and he followed the Joggi on the foot. Outside the
Joggi Otto said: "That you can take, we go home now and you know,
down there . 'As Joggi shook his head and stood behind the Miezchen.
So all three went on, the slope, ahead of petrol, then Miezchen,
then Joggi. The mother saw the train approaching, and her heart was
quite relieved when she saw how the Joggi behind the Miezchen
herschritt, the red sugar cock in her hand was constantly amusing
and laughed.

So the three came into the house and into the room, and here to seek
the bustle Miezchen a chair, took the Eßkorb hand and waved to
the Joggi that he brings. When he sat at the table, put everything
in the cart was before him and said, "Eat you now only Joggi, and you
just eat everything on and was now very happy." Since the Joggi laughed
and ate the two big sausages and all the bread and the huge piece of
cheese and then the crumbs. The red rooster, he sugar all the time with
notes on his left hand, looked at him from time to time and laughed
happily as sausage and bread, he had probably already received. But
a red sugar cock had in his whole life, nobody gift. Joggi finally went
down the slope. Full of joy watching the mother, and Otto Miezchen him.
He held his cock soon sugar in one, and soon the other hand, always
laughed and had quite forgotten his fright. For three days the
woman had the Colonel Carpenter Andres not visited. There was
so much happening these days that they do not understand how the
time had passed away.

But yes, she could be calmed down, she knew that the good food and
Andres on the best path of recovery was. Her husband had the same
on the morning after his return from the city to Andres attended to
him, the discovery and arrest of his brother even know. Andres had
listened very quietly and then said: "He did it so wish to have. It
would be better, he would have me a little money asked. I would have
given him. But he has always thrashed rather than talk." Now Oberst
joined the woman on a sunny winter morning from her door and went
merrily down the hill. Because they dealt in their interior with
an idea of their well-liked. As the door aufmachte at Schreiner
Andres, Wiseli just came from the room out. His eyes were quite
aufgeschwollen and hochrot of wines. There was Colonel of the woman's
hand only fleetingly shy and ran into the kitchen inside, to hide.
This was the woman the colonel Wiseli never seen. What has happened
since? They came into the room. Since sitting on the sunny window of
the Andres and looked as was never experienced misfortune befallen
on him. "What is happening here?" asked the woman colonel in horror and
forgot to say hello. "Oh, Mrs Colonel," Andres moaned, "I wanted to,
the child would never have come into my house!" "What," cried they
are still terrified of "the Wiseli Can this child suffering you have
taken? "" Oh, for heaven's sake, no, Mrs Colonel, I think it is not,
"said Andres excited. "But now the child is with me and had made
me a life in my house, like in paradise. And now I must return the
child hergeben, and everything will be much Oeder and empty around
me than before. I can not endure. You can not think how my dear child.
I can not endure if it's taken away from me. tomorrow it must go, the
uncle has twice sent the boys. It must now come back tomorrow,
it must be . And then there is still something that I almost blown
heart. Since the boy's uncle sent the child is quite quiet and cry
secretly. It will not show it, but you can's see, it falls to
him to go hard . And it must be tomorrow. I do not exaggerate, Mrs.
Colonel. But I can say. Everything I saved for thirty years and have
developed, I would be his uncle if he could me the child. "The
woman had the Colonel Andres excited to talk to the end. Now she said
quietly: "I would not do in your place. I would appreciate it very
differently. "Andres looked questioningly." Look, Andres, I would
make it. I would say: 'All my well-deserved Well, I want someone
to leave, I would like. I want the child to Wiseli accept Instead, I
want his father, and it will be my child in my house to stay. 'Would
you not like, Andres?

"The Andres had listened silently, and his eyes were always bigger. Now
He grabbed the hand of Mrs. Colonel and pressed it. "Can you really
make? Could I say: the Wiseli is my child, my own child, and nobody has
more right to the child, and no man can take me more? "" That you
may, Andres ", assured the woman colonel." Once the Wiseli your
child, no man has more right to the child. You are the father.
And because I thought you might wish to retain the Wiseli, so I asked
my husband, do not leave today, if you around the city in the firm
would go, that everything will be fixed soon, because you can walk
you do not go. "Andres knew not what he did before the excitement and
joy.

He ran then and there and looked at the Sunday Rock. Then he called again
and again:" Is it safe right? It's as well? "Then he stood again in
front of women and colonel asked:" Can it be now, right now, today?
"" Right now, "she assured. But she is now a carpenter's hand Andres
farewell, they had to go and her husband announce that Andres was
already ready. "You should Wiseli until the evening to say if
everything is well begun," said the woman colonel under the door.

"Yes, certainly, certainly," said Andres to answer.

"Now I would not say a word out anyway." As the door closed, Andres
sat on his chair and shook hands and feet so much that he thought
he could never get up.

So were his joy and stir in all the links there. It lasted barely half
an hour because the car was already approached the Supreme and
held at the garden of the Carpenter.

C3.10. How true to nature this. Cannot one see the little boy doubling
his little fists, a knife in his pocket, possibly a ball of string?

C3.11. Is there a touch of flunkeyism in this? Not so; it is the
clear-sighted scientific Greek, that is all.

C3.14. Very Scotch all this.

C3.21-22. /Locus classicus/ for regimental marching tactics. Qy.: Are
any of these tactical improvements by Xenophon himself?

[C3.21. The "regiment" of a hundred men was divided into four
"companies" of twenty-five, to each of these one company-captain and
twenty-four men, viz.: twenty privates, two captains-of-ten, and two
captains-of-five, the two captains of ten having also especial charge
over the two remaining squads of five. A condensed diagram may make
the little manœuvre clear. An X represents one group of five plus its
captain, either a captain-of-five or a captain-of-ten. A C represents
a company-captain.

  First position--One long column. All in single file.

  Second position--Four columns. Single file for each company.

  Third position--Eight columns. Double files.

  Fourth position--Sixteen columns. Quadruple files.

    C      C   C       C     C          C       C
    X      X   X  ->  X X   X X  ->  X X X X X X X X
    X  ->  X   X      X X   X X
    X      X   X
    X      X   X
    C
    X
    X
    X
    X]

C4.15. Cyaxares means to kidnap them, doesn't he? That is not quite
Cyrus' method. If so, it contrasts Cyaxares and Cyrus again.

C4.17. Cyaxares the old fox improves upon the plan.

C4.30, init. It is these touches which give the thrilling subjective
feeling to the writings of Xenophon, or, rather, thus his nerves
tingle, just as the external touches give a sense of objective health
(e.g. above, C1.29).

C4.32. All this is entirely modern, never yet excelled, I imagine.


BOOK III

[C.1] Thus Cyrus made his preparations. But the Armenian, when he
heard what the messenger had to say, was terror-stricken: he knew the
wrong he had done in neglecting the tribute and withholding the
troops, and, above all, he was afraid it would be discovered that he
was beginning to put his palace in a fit state for defence. [2]
Therefore, with much trepidation, he began to collect his own forces,
and at the same time he sent his younger son Sabaris into the hills
with the women, his own wife, and the wife of his elder son and his
daughters, taking the best of their ornaments and furniture with them
and an escort to be their guide. Meanwhile he despatched a party to
discover what Cyrus was doing, and organised all the Armenian
contingents as they came in. But it was not long before other
messengers arrived, saying that Cyrus himself was actually at hand.
[3] Then his courage forsook him; he dared not come to blows and he
withdrew. As soon as the recruits saw this they took to their heels,
each man bent on getting his own property safely out of the way. When
Cyrus saw the plains full of them, racing and riding everywhere, he
sent out messengers privately to explain that he had no quarrel with
any who stayed quietly in their homes, but if he caught a man in
flight, he warned them he would treat him as an enemy. Thus the
greater part were persuaded to remain, though there were some who
retreated with the king.

[4] But when the escort with the women came on the Persians in the
mountain, they fled with cries of terror, and many of them were taken
prisoners. In the end the young prince himself was captured, and the
wife of the king, and his daughters, and his daughter-in-law, and all
the goods they had with them. And when the king learnt what had
happened, scarcely knowing where to turn, he fled to the summit of a
certain hill. [5] Cyrus, when he saw it, surrounded the spot with his
troops and sent word to Chrysantas, bidding him leave a force to guard
the mountains and come down to him. So the mass of the army was
collected under Cyrus, and then he sent a herald to the king with this
enquiry:

"Son of Armenia, will you wait here and fight with hunger and thirst,
or will you come down into the plain and fight it out with us?" But
the Armenian answered that he wished to fight with neither. [6] Cyrus
sent again and asked, "Why do you sit there, then, and refuse to come
down?" "Because I know not what to do," answered the other. "It is
simple enough," said Cyrus, "come down and take your trial." "And who
shall try me?" asked the king. "He," answered Cyrus, "to whom God has
given the power to treat you as he lists, without a trial at all."

Thereupon the Armenian came down, yielding to necessity, and Cyrus
took him and all that he had and placed him in the centre of the camp,
for all his forces were now at hand.

[7] Meanwhile Tigranes, the elder son of the king, was on his way home
from a far country. In old days he had hunted with Cyrus and been his
friend, and now, when he heard what had happened, he came forward just
as he was; but when he saw his father and his mother, his brother and
sisters, and his own wife all held as prisoners, he could not keep
back the tears. [8] But Cyrus gave him no sign of friendship or
courtesy, and only said, "You have come in time, you may be present
now to hear your father tried." With that he summoned the leaders of
the Persians and the Medes, and any Armenian of rank and dignity who
was there, nor would he send away the women as they sat in covered
carriages, but let them listen too. [9] When all was ready he began:
"Son of Armenia, I would counsel you, in the first place, to speak the
truth, so that at least you may stand free from what deserves the
utmost hate: beyond all else, be assured, manifest lying checks the
sympathy of man and man. Moreover," said he, "your own sons, your
daughters, and your wife are well aware of all that you have done, and
so are your own Armenians who are here: if they perceive that you say
what is not true, they must surely feel that out of your own lips you
condemn yourself to suffer the uttermost penalty when I learn the
truth." "Nay," answered the king, "ask me whatever you will, and I
will answer truly, come what come may." [10] "Answer then," said
Cyrus, "did you once make war upon Astyages, my mother's father, and
his Medes?" "I did," he answered. "And were you conquered by him, and
did you agree to pay tribute and furnish troops whenever he required,
and promise not to fortify your dwellings?" "Even so," he said. "Why
is it, then, that to-day you have neither brought the tribute nor sent
the troops, and are building forts?" "I set my heart on liberty: it
seemed to me so fair a thing to be free myself and to leave freedom to
my sons." [11] "And fair and good it is," said Cyrus, "to fight for
freedom and choose death rather than slavery, but if a man is worsted
in war or enslaved by any other means and then attempts to rid himself
of his lord, tell me yourself, would you honour such a man as upright,
and a doer of noble deeds, or would you, if you got him in your power,
chastise him as a malefactor?" "I would chastise him," he answered,
"since you drive me to the truth." [12] "Then answer me now, point by
point," said Cyrus. "If you have an officer and he does wrong, do you
suffer him to remain in office, or do you set up another in his
stead?" "I set up another." "And if he have great riches, to you leave
him all his wealth, or do you make him a beggar?" "I take away from
him all that he has." "And if you found him deserting to your enemies,
what would you do?" "I would kill him," he said: "why should I perish
with a lie on my lips rather than speak the truth and die?"

[13] But at this his son rent his garments and dashed the tiara from
his brows, and the women lifted up their voices in wailing and tore
their cheeks, as though their father was dead already, and they
themselves undone. But Cyrus bade them keep silence, and spoke again.
"Son of Armenia, we have heard your own judgment in this case, and now
tell us, what ought we to do?" But the king sat silent and perplexed,
wondering whether he should bid Cyrus put him to death, or act in the
teeth of the rule he had laid down for himself. [14] Then his son
Tigranes turned to Cyrus and said, "Tell me, Cyrus, since my father
sits in doubt, may I give counsel in his place and say what I think
best for you?"

Now Cyrus remembered that, in the old hunting days, he had noticed a
certain man of wisdom who went about with Tigranes and was much
admired by him, and he was curious to know what the youth would say.
So he readily agreed and bade him speak his mind.

[15] "In my view, then," said Tigranes, "if you approve of all that my
father has said and done, certainly you ought to do as he did, but if
you think he has done wrong, then you must not copy him."

"But surely," said Cyrus, "the best way to avoid copying the wrongdoer
is to practise what is right?"

"True enough," answered the prince.

"Then on your own reasoning, I am bound to punish your father, if it
is right to punish wrong."

"But would you wish your vengeance to do you harm instead of good?"

"Nay," said Cyrus, "for then my vengeance would fall upon myself."

[16] "Even so," said Tigranes, "and you will do yourself the greatest
harm if you put your own subjects to death just when they are most
valuable to you."

"Can they have any value," asked Cyrus, "when they are detected doing
wrong?"

"Yes," answered Tigranes, "if that is when they turn to good and learn
sobriety. For it is my belief, Cyrus, that without this virtue all
others are in vain. What good will you get from a strong man or a
brave if he lack sobriety, be he never so good a horseman, never so
rich, never so powerful in the state? But with sobriety every friend
is a friend in need and every servant a blessing."

[17] "I take your meaning," answered Cyrus; "your father, you would
have me think, has been changed in this one day from a fool into a
wise and sober-minded man?"

"Exactly," said the prince.

"Then you would call sober-mindedness a condition of our nature, such
as pain, not a matter of reason that can be learnt? For certainly, if
he who is to be sober-minded must learn wisdom first, he could not be
converted from folly in a day."

[18] "Nay, but, Cyrus," said the prince, "surely you yourself have
known one man at least who out of sheer folly has set himself to fight
a stronger man than he, and on the day of defeat his senselessness has
been cured. And surely you have known a city ere now that has
marshalled her battalions against a rival state, but with defeat she
changes suddenly and is willing to obey and not resist?"

[19] "But what defeat," said Cyrus, "can you find in your father's
case to make you so sure that he has come to a sober mind?"

"A defeat," answered the young man, "of which he is well aware in the
secret chambers of his soul. He set his heart on liberty, and he has
found himself a slave as never before: he had designs that needed
stealth and speed and force, and not one of them has he been able to
carry through. With you he knows that design and fulfilment went hand
in hand; when you wished to outwit him, outwit him you did, as though
he had been blind and deaf and dazed; when stealth was needed, your
stealth was such that the fortresses he thought his own you turned
into traps for him; and your speed was such that you were upon him
from miles away with all your armament before he found time to muster
the forces at his command."

[20] "So you think," said Cyrus, "that merely to learn another is
stronger than himself is defeat enough to bring a man to his senses?"

"I do," answered Tigranes, "and far more truly than mere defeat in
battle. For he who is conquered by force may fancy that if he trains
he can renew the war, and captured cities dream that with the help of
allies they will fight again one day, but if we meet with men who are
better than ourselves and whom we recognise to be so, we are ready to
obey them of our own free will." [21] "You imagine then," said Cyrus,
"that the bully and the tyrant cannot recognise the man of self-
restraint, nor the thief the honest man, nor the liar the truth-
speaker, nor the unjust man the upright? Has not your own father lied
even now and broken his word with us, although he knew that we had
faithfully observed every jot and tittle of the compact Astyages
made?" First, the prince smiled through the tears, which he in the eyes
of the young man saw, it was also his voice moves. He pulled one of
the many rings, which he wore on the fingers, and Giulio kissed when
he received it, the noble deeds by so famous hand. "Never had my
father as a precaution, talked with me," cried the young man
enthusiastically from . The next morning, a little before daybreak,
he moved to the walls of the Castro, a small town, five soldiers
followed him, as he dressed, two of which were for himself and seemed
neither him nor the three others to know. Even before they occurred
in the city, Giulio was the Convent of the Visitation noticed a big,
black walls surrounded the building, which resembled a fortress.
He ran to the church, she was magnificent. The nuns, all noble and
mostly from rich houses were competed among themselves out of vanity,
to the church to decorate rich that the only part of the monastery was,
what the eyes of the public reached. It had become use to those of the
ladies, from one of the cardinal-protector of the Order of the Visitation,
the Pope's list of three nuns, was chosen for the abbess, a handsome
gift darbrachte, which served to perpetuate their names. Those
whose administration was less than the gift of the last abbess,
decayed and their family of contempt. Giulio came shivering into
this magnificent building, the marble and gold shone. In truth, he
thought little of the marble and gold ornaments, it seemed to him that
he was under Helena eyes. The high altar was how he said, more than
eight hundred thousand francs lost, but his eyes, the overlooked
treasures of the altar, and tacked on a gold mesh that is nearly
forty feet high, and by two marble pillars in the three departments
was divided. This grid, which his mighty size gave something terrible,
stood behind the high altar and the choir that separated the nuns
from the church accessible to all believers. Giulio said that, nuns
and pensioners are covered during the service behind this grid were
golden. In this inner part of the church could be a nun or a Pensionärin
to go any time of day when they had need to pray on this fact known
all over the world founded in the hopes of the poor lover. However,
uncovered a massive black veil on the grid inside. 'But this veil',
presented on Giulio, 'is hardly the view of retired interior stop if
they are in the public church look, because I - he stated - I am
just approaching some distance can notice it through the veil the
windows that give light to the chorus, very good, yes, I can even
the smallest details of its architecture are different, 'this glorious
Each rod gilded lattice wore a sharp, against which he directed
approaching peak. Giulio chose a very visible place in The brightest
spot, the left part of the grid opposite. There he spent his days
so that the masses to hear. Since he is only surrounded by farmers
saw that he could hope, even through the black veil to be observed
through it.

For the first time in his life sought the simple young man to be
different: his presence was sought, he gave many alms to entry and
leaving the church. His people, and he treated the small suppliers
and workers, the connection with the monastery had with the greatest
attention. But only on the third day he finally had a view, a letter
to Helen to be able to let go. At his command followed consistently the
two sisters lay people, the supplies for the monastery had to buy;
one of them had relations with a Krämer. One of the soldiers Giulios,
the monk had won the friendship of the merchant, and promised him a
sequins for each letter, which the Pensionärin Helena Campireali
would be notified. "What!" said the clerk at the first hint
that he made on this matter, "a letter to the wife of the Brigand?"
This name was already established in the Castro, but Helena was
only a fortnight ago there arrived so quickly runs everything substance
of the imagination in this nation who passionately loves all the details.
The small businessman added: "This at least is married, but how many
of our women have no such excuse and receive from the outside as
a whole andres letters." In this first letter Giulio told countless
details with everything on that ill-fated death Fabios had gone
ahead. "You hate me?" he asked at the end. Helena answered only one
line, which they said that they hate anyone, and the rest of their
lives would be used to forget that her brother had killed.

Giulio rushed to respond, after accusations against the fate which Plato
and imitations were in vogue at that time, he continued: "So you want
to the word of God, which he in the Scriptures for us had been forgotten,
God says: the woman is her family and her parents left to her
husband to follow. you dare to say that you're not my wife?

Remember the Night of San Pietro. As the dawn behind the Monte Cave
ascended threw you my feet, I wanted to spare you, you belong test
me if I wanted it, you might love that you felt at that time for
me, do not resist.

I had often said to you before that I give you my life and everything
me in the world is expensive offerings, but suddenly seemed to me that
you also be able to reply to me - even if you never would do - that
all of these by any outer fact substantiated victims perhaps only
imagination. A cruel against me, but essentially correct idea
enlightened me. I thought, not without reason that the chance I now
have the opportunity there, in your interest to the highest happiness
to forgo that I ever had imagined. You were in my arms and even
without resistance, remember, even your mouth not dared to refuse. At
this moment sounded the morning Ave Maria in the monastery of Monte
Cave and protected by a wonderful coincidence that sound came up
to us.

You called me to bring this sacrifice of the holy Virgin Mary,
the mother all purity. I had been a moment the idea of this victim,
the only thing I ever to bring you the opportunity would have. I
found it outrageous that the same idea you had. The distant sound of
the Ave Maria touched me, I will admit it, I fulfilled your request.
The victim was not quite alone, for you brought, I thought our future
association under the protection of the Mother of God to make. At the
time, I thought not because of you, unfaithful, but, that your rich
and aristocratic family obstacles will come. How would this
Angelus from so far away, by half a forest on the summit in the morning
wind moving through trees without natural exposure to us may penetrate?
Because you fell in front of me on the knee, Do you remember?

I stood up, pulled from my breast the cross that I wear it, and you
schwurst on this Cross, which is here before me, and for your
eternal damnation, where would you ever be, and whatever the future
holds , would you, as soon as I command you send to my self
again, as you were at that moment, when the Ave Maria by Monteverdi
Cave so far in your ear touched. Then we said two upright and two
Ave Paternoster. Well probably, in the love that you felt at
that time for me or if you - as I fear - have forgotten, in your eternal
damnation, I command you, me tonight in your room or in the garden
to receive. " The Italian author brings strangely still many long
letters Giulio Brancifortes which are written after this, but he is
only extracts from the replies Helena Campirealis. Now, a few hundred
years later, we are the feelings of love and religion that these
letters meet, so alien to that I am afraid that they might be too
long.

From these letters it appears that Helen finally obeyed the command,
the in which we cut back given letter was included. Giulio was a means
to intrude into the monastery, you vermöchte a word to assume that
he is disguised as a woman. Helen received him, but just behind the
grille a ground floor window, which went to the garden. To his indescribable
pain Giulio recognized that this once so gentle and even passionate
girls had become a stranger, they treated him almost with exquisite
courtesy. As she entered the garden einließ, she had almost
exclusively the sacred obligation to obey the oath. The encounter
was short: after a few minutes won the pride Giulios, perhaps by the
events of the last fourteen days was a bit irritated, the upper
hand.

"I see nothing before me, 'he said to himself,' as the shadow of
Helena that come in Albano for the whole life devotion, 'Well, it
was the main thing for Giulio, to hide the tears, which the courteous
phrases with which the word of Helena him, his face überströmten. When
she had ceased to speak, and - as they said - after the death of a
brother as a natural change to justify their Giulio replied,
very slowly he said: "You do not fulfill your vow, you receive me
not in the garden ; you is not before me at the knees, as then,
half a minute after that Ave Maria by Monteverdi Cave heard. forget
your oath, if you can, I forget nothing, God is with you!

" With these words he left the barred windows, in which he good nor
would one hours stay. Who would have thought a few moments before he
must say that these so-awaited meeting voluntarily shorten them!

This sacrifice tore his soul, but he believed that he would earn
Helena contempt if he, unlike their formality so that answered that
he left her remorse. Before dawn, he left the monastery. He went
on horseback, and gave his soldiers command him for a week in Castro
to expect and then back into the forest, he was beside himself with
despair. First, he turned to Rome. 'What? I remove myself from it! "
he said with every step.

'How we are alien to each other has become! O Fabio! How art thou
avenged!

'The sight of the people he antraf on the street, still increased his
anger, he turned his horse across the fields and rode on the barren
deserted shore oblique to the sea. When he was no longer protected by
the encounters with these quiet was disrupted farmers, whose lot he
envied, he breathed on, the sight of this wild region was in line
with his despair, and unpleasantness of his anger, but now he could
look at the sad fate of his surrender. 'At my age,' said he, 'I have
to help a woman to love andre!' At this sad thought he felt his
desperation to double, he saw only too well that it is for him only one
woman in the world existed. He imagined the pain that he would suffer
if it is the word love before another as ausspräche Helena. This idea
tore him. He was a fit of laughter bittren shaking. 'I am exactly
the same here Ariosts heroes,' he thought, 'through the lonely
desolate countries prefer to forget that her faithless lover in
the other arms of a knight have found ...

But it is not so guilty, 'he said, he referred to this wonderful laugh
again broke into tears,' their infidelity is not so much a love
for others.

This bewegsame and pure soul, through the terrible things can mislead,
one of her told me, without a doubt, it was her as if I had at
this fateful attack only in the secret intention to participate, to
kill her brother. You will still be gone, you will give me the dirty
assigning calculation have indicated that the sole heiress to a vast
wealth will, if her brother was dead ... And I, I have committed
the stupidity that they whole fortnight alone, the persuasion of my
enemies as plunder to leave! One must admit that to me, to all my
misery, the sky is still the mind has failed to steer my life! I am
a scornful, contemptuous of God is a being! My life was not useful
and even less to me than any other. 'At this moment the young Branciforte
had a very strange time that inspiration: his horse progressively
on the extreme edge of the shore and the waves sometimes wetted his
hooves, he had the idea that the sea and thus the terrible fate to
finish his prey he was. fernerhin What should he do, because the
only beings in the world that made him ever the possibility of
happiness was felt, left him? Then it was suddenly a thought else
back.

'What are the agonies that I endure,' said he, 'in comparison with those
who suffer, I would, after this miserable life is finished? Helena
is not merely indifferent to I behave as it does now, but I would be
in the arms of a rival to see, and this rival is a young Roman nobleman
be rich and respected, because the demons, as it is their duty, the
cruelest images search my soul tear. So will I, even in death,
Helena can not forget, yes, much more: my passion for it will be
doubled, because this is the safest way to what the eternal forces can
go to me for my terrible sin to be punished. "To temptation entirely
distribute Giulio be sent to the Ave Maria prayer. Once, when he left
the morning Ave Maria had heard that the Mother of God consecrated
prayer, was that temptation came over him, to act nobly to him
today as the greatest folly of his life appeared.

But reverence he dared not go further and completely express the idea,
which takes possession of his mind had. 'If I am inspired by the
Madonna to a fateful mistake bin, because they must not in their
infinite justice any circumstance create me the good fortune again
there? "This idea of the justice of the Madonna chased after his
despair. He lifted his head and looked behind Albano and the forest of
the dark green-covered Monte Cave before, and the holy monastery,
whose morning ringing him on the had what he now called a shameful
deception which he had been perpetrated.

The unexpected sight of this holy place consoled him. 'No,' he
exclaimed, 'it is impossible that the Madonna makes me in the lurch.
Helena my wife would have been, as it allowed her love and my dignity
as a man it claimed it had the story of her brother's death in her
soul the memory of the tape increases, which they linked to me. You
would have said that they belonged to me long before the unfortunate
coincidence me on the battlefield against Fabio presented.

He was two years older than me, he was experienced in the arms, in every
respect and looking stronger.
."

[14] And when the Chaldaeans heard that, they poured out praises and
thanks, and then they turned homewards and departed.

Meanwhile the king, receiving the call of Cyrus, and hearing the
business that was at hand, had gathered his workmen together and took
what he thought necessary and came with all speed. [15] And when he
caught sight of Cyrus, he cried: "Ah, my lord, blind mortals that we
are! How little can we see of the future, and how much we take in hand
to do! I set myself to win freedom and I made myself a slave, and now,
when we were captured and said to ourselves that we were utterly
undone, suddenly we find a safety we never had before. Those who
troubled us are taken now, even as I would have them. [16] Be well
assured, Cyrus," he added, "that I would have paid the sum you had
from me over and over again simply to dislodge the Chaldaeans from
these heights. The things of worth you promised me when you took the
money have been paid in full already, and we discover that we are not
your creditors, but deep in your debt for many kindnesses; and we
shall be ashamed not to return them, or we should be base indeed, for
try as we may, we shall never be able to requite in full so great a
benefactor."

[17] Such thanks the Armenian gave.

Then the Chaldaeans came back, begging Cyrus to make peace with them.
And Cyrus asked them: "Am I right in thinking that you desire peace
to-day because you believe it will be safer for you than war, now that
we hold these heights?"

And the Chaldaeans said that so it was. [18] "Well and good," said he.
"And what if other benefits were gained by peace?" "We should be all
the better pleased," said they. "Is there any other reason," he asked,
"for your present poverty, except your lack of fertile soil?" They
said that there was none. "Well then," Cyrus went on, "would you be
willing to pay the same dues as the Armenians, if you were allowed to
cultivate as much of their land as you desired?" And the Chaldaeans
said they would, if only they could rely on being fairly treated. [19]
"Now," said Cyrus, turning to the Armenian king, "would you like that
land of yours which is now lying idle to be tilled and made
productive, supposing the workers paid you the customary dues?" "I
would, indeed," said the king, "so much so that I am ready to pay a
large sum for it. It would mean a great increase to my revenue." [20]
"And you, Chaldaeans," said Cyrus, "with your splendid mountains,
would you let the Armenians use them for pasture if the graziers paid
you what was fair?" "Surely yes," said the Chaldaeans, "it would mean
much profit and no pains."

"Son of Armenia," said Cyrus, "would you take this land for grazing,
if by paying a small sum to the Chaldaeans you got a far greater
return yourself?"

"Right willingly," said he, "if I thought my flocks could feed in
safety."

"And would they not be safe enough," suggested Cyrus, "if this pass
were held for you?" To which the king agreed. [21] But the Chaldaeans
cried, "Heaven help us! We could not till our own fields in safety,
not to speak of theirs, if the Armenians held the pass." . * * *
* * While Antoñona was rumination and arranging in his mind all these
things, D. Luis, just as it was, he repented of having done so slight
and he was so weak in the award citation Antoñona that he had asked.
Don Luis stopped to consider the condition Antoñona, and it seemed
perverse that the most of Enon and the Celestina. He saw it in
front of all the danger to voluntarily ventured and did not see
any advantage in doing all demure and theft of a visit to the beautiful
widow.

Go to see it to pass and fall on their networks, making a mockery of
their votes, leaving bad Bishop, who had recommended his request
for waiver, and until the Supreme Pontiff, who had been granted,
and refraining from being a cleric, he saw a very huge desdoro. It
was also a betrayal of his father, who loved and wanted Pepita marry
her. Go and see it to disabuse even more, on a whim further
refinement of cruelty to leave without telling anything.

Driven by these reasons, the first thing you thought D. Luis was
absent from the event without excuse or notice, and that Antoñona
you wait in vain in the hallway, but Antoñona announce the visit
to his wife, and he is missing not only Antoñona but Pepita, letting
go, with an unspeakable rudeness. then went to write a letter
Pepita very discreet and affectionate, you go apologizing, justifying
his conduct, consoling, expressing their tender feelings for her,
while pointing out that the obligation and skies were foremost, and
ensuring Pepita to give encouragement to make the same sacrifice that
he made. Four or five times began to write this letter. Smearing a lot
of paper, tore it away, and the letter never went out to their liking.
It was dry, cold pedantesca as a bad sermon or as the discussion
of a domino already reflected in its content and a childish fear
of ridicule, as if Pepita was soon devouring monster, and had
written the moon and other defects no less pathetic..

[27] So this matter was settled to the mind of all. But Cyrus, on
hearing that the Chaldaeans were in the habit of going to India,
remembered how Indian ambassadors had come to the Medes to spy out
their affairs, and how they had gone on to their enemies--doubtless to
do the same there--and he felt a wish that they should hear something
of what he had achieved himself. [28] So he said to the company: "Son
of Armenia, and men of the Chaldaeans, I have something to ask you.
Tell me, if I were to send ambassadors to India, would you send some
of your own folk with them to show them the way, and support them in
gaining for us all that I desire? I still need more money if I am to
pay all the wages, as I wish, in full, and give rewards and make
presents to such of my soldiers as deserve them. It is for such things
I need all the money I can get, for I believe them to be essential. It
would be pleasanter for me not to draw on you, because I look on you
already as my friends, but I should be glad to take from the Indian as
much as he will give me. My messenger--the one for whom I ask guides
and coadjutors--will go to the king and say: 'Son of India, my master
has sent me to you, bidding me say that he has need of more money. He
is expecting another army from Persia,' and indeed I do expect one,"
Cyrus added. "Then my messenger will proceed, 'If you can send my
master all that you have at hand he will do his best, if God grant him
success, that you should feel your kindness has not been ill-advised.'
[30] That is what my emissary will say: and you must give such
instructions to yours as you think fit yourselves. If I get money from
the king, I shall have abundance at my disposal: if I fail, at least
we shall owe him no gratitude, and as far as he is concerned we may
look to our own interests alone."

[31] So Cyrus spoke, convinced that the ambassadors from Armenia and
Chaldaea would speak of him as he desired all men might do. And then,
as the hour was come, they broke up the meeting and took their rest.

[C.3] But on the next day Cyrus despatched his messenger with the
instructions, and the Armenians and Chaldaeans sent their own
ambassadors, choosing the men they thought would help Cyrus most and
speak of his exploits in the most fitting terms. Cyrus put a strong
garrison in the fort and stored it with supplies, and left an officer
in command, a Mede, whose appointment, he thought, would gratify
Cyaxares, and then he turned homewards, taking with him not only the
troops he had brought, but the force the Armenians had furnished, and
a picked body of Chaldaeans who considered themselves stronger than
all the rest together. [2] And as he come down from the hills into the
cultivated land, not one of the Armenians, man or woman, stayed
indoors: with one accord they all went out to meet him, rejoicing that
peace was made, and bringing him offerings from their best, driving
before them the animals they valued most. The king himself was not
ill-pleased at this, for he thought that Cyrus would take delight in
the honour the people showed him. Last of all came the queen herself,
with her daughters and her younger son, bearing many gifts, and among
them the golden treasure that Cyrus had refused before. [3] But when
he saw it he said: "Nay, you must not make me a mercenary and a
benefactor for pay; take this treasure back and hie you home, but do
not give it to your lord that he may bury it again; spend it on your
son, and send him forth gloriously equipped for war, and with the
residue buy yourself and for your husband and your children such
precious things as shall endure, and bring joy and beauty into all
your days. As for burying, let us only bury our bodies on the day when
each must die."

[4] With that he rode away, the king and all his people escorting him,
like a guard of honour, calling him their saviour, their benefactor,
and their hero, and heaping praises on him until he had left the land.
And the king sent with him a larger army than ever he had sent before,
seeing that now he had peace at home. [5] Thus Cyrus took his
departure, having gained not only the actual money he took away with
him, but a far ampler store of wealth, won by his own graciousness, on
which he could draw in time of need.

For the first night he encamped on the borders of Armenia, but the
next day he sent an army and the money to Cyaxares, who was close at
hand, as he had promised to be, while he himself took his pleasure in
hunting wherever he could find the game, in company with Tigranes and
the flower of the Persian force.

[6] And when he came back to Media he gave gifts of money to his chief
officers, sufficient for each to reward their own subordinates, for he
held to it that, if every one made his own division worthy of praise,
all would be well with the army as a whole. He himself secured
anything that he thought of value for the campaign, and divided it
among the most meritorious, convinced that every gain to the army was
an adornment to himself.

[7] At every distribution he would take occasion to address the
officers and all whom he chose to honour in some such words as these:
"My friends, the god of mirth must be with us to-day: we have found a
source of plenty, and we have the wherewithal to honour whom we wish
and as they may deserve. [8] Let us call to mind, all of us, the only
way in which these blessings can be won. We shall find it is by toil,
and watchfulness, and speed, and the resolve never to yield to our
foes. After this pattern must we prove ourselves to be men, knowing
that all high delights and all great joys are only gained by obedience
and hardihood, and through pains endured and dangers confronted in
their proper season."

[9] But presently, when Cyrus saw that his men were strong enough for
all the work of war, and bold enough to meet their enemies with scorn,
expert and skilful in the use of the weapons each man bore, and all of
them perfect in obedience and discipline, the desire grew in his heart
to be up and doing and achieve something against the foe. He knew well
how often a general has found delay ruin his fairest armament. [10] He
noticed, moreover, that in the eagerness of rivalry and the strain of
competition many of the soldiers grew jealous of each other; and for
this, if for no other reason, he desired to lead them into the enemy's
country without delay, feeling that common dangers awaken comradeship
among those who are fighting in a common cause, and then all such
bickerings cease, and no man is galled by the splendour of his
comrade's arms, or the passion of his desire for glory: envy is
swallowed up in praise, and each competitor greets his rivals with
delight as fellow-workers for the common good.

[11] Therefore Cyrus ordered his whole force to assemble under arms,
and drew them up into battle-array, using all his skill to make the
display a wonder of beauty and perfection. Then he summoned his chief
officers, his generals, his brigadiers, and his company-captains.
These men were not bound to be always in the ranks, and some were
always free to wait on the commander-in-chief or carry orders along
the lines without leaving the troops unofficered: for the captains-of-
twelve and the captains-of-six stepped into the gaps, and absolute
order was preserved. [12] So Cyrus assembled his staff and led them
along the lines, pointing out the merits of the combined forces and
the special strength of each, and thus he kindled in their hearts the
passion for achievement, and then he bade them return to their
regiments and repeat the lessons he had taught them, trying to implant
in their own men the same desire for action, so that one and all might
sally out in the best of heart; and the next morning they were to
present themselves at Cyaxares' gates. [13] So the officers went away
and did as he commanded, and the next morning at daybreak they
assembled at the trysting-place, and Cyrus met them and came before
Cyaxares and said to him:

"I know well that what I am about to say must often have been in your
own mind, but you have shrunk from suggesting it yourself lest it seem
that you were weary of supporting us. [14] Therefore since you must
keep silence, let me speak for both of us. We are all agreed that
since our preparations are complete we should not wait until the enemy
invades our territory before we give him battle, nor loiter here in a
friendly land, but attack him on his own ground with what speed we
may. [15] For while we linger here, we injure your property in spite
of ourselves, but once on the enemy's soil, we can damage his, and
that with the best will in the world. [16] As things are, you must
maintain us, and the cost is great; but once launched on foreign
service, we can maintain ourselves, and at our foe's expense. [17]
Possibly, if it were more dangerous to go forward than to stay here,
the more cautious might seem the wiser plan. But whether we stay or
whether we go, the enemy's numbers will be the same, and so will ours,
whether we receive them here or join battle with them there. [18]
Moreover, the spirit of our soldiers will be all the higher and all
the bolder if they feel that they are marching against the foe and not
cowering before him; and his alarm will be all the greater when he
hears that we are not crouching at home in terror but coming out to
meet him as soon as we have heard of his advance, eager to close at
once, not holding back until our territory suffers, but prompt to
seize the moment and ravage his own land first. [19] Indeed," he
added, "if we do no more than quicken our own courage and his fears, I
would reckon it a substantial gain, and count it so much the less
danger for us and so much the more for him. My father never tires of
telling me what I have heard you say yourself, and what all the world
admits, that battles are decided more by the character of the troops
than by their bodily strength."

[20] He ended, and Cyaxares answered:

"Cyrus, both you and all my Persian friends may feel sure that I find
it no trouble to maintain you; do not imagine such a thing; but I
agree with you that the time is ripe for an advance on the enemy's
land."

"Then," said Cyrus, "since we are all of one mind, let us make our
final preparations, and, if heaven will, let us set forth without
delay."

[21] So they bade the soldiers prepare for the start, and Cyrus
offered sacrifices to Zeus the Lord and to the other gods in due
order, and prayed, "Look on us with favour, and be gracious to us;
guide our army, stand beside us in the battle, aid us in council, help
us in action, be the comrades of the brave." Also he called upon the
Heroes of Media, who dwell in the land and guard it. [22] Then, when
the signs were favourable and his army was mustered on the frontier,
he felt that the moment had come, and with all good omens to support
him, he invaded the enemy's land. And so soon as he had crossed the
border he offered libations to the Earth and victims to the gods, and
sought to win the favour of the Heroes who guard Assyria. And having
so done, once more he sacrificed to Zeus, the god of his fathers, and
was careful to reverence every other god who came before his mind.

[23] But when these duties were fulfilled, there was no further pause.
There were moments when her mother she wanted to confess everything.
The next morning she was so pale when she appeared before her that
all her intentions are forgetting, in the arms and threw her daughter
exclaiming: "What comes first? Great God! Tell me, what hast thou
done, or Skip the standing to do if you lose a dagger into the heart
and to me, would you let me suffer less than by the cruel silence that
you are against me, watch. "The infinite tenderness of their mother
Helen was so clear that they saw so clear that the expression of their
feelings to dampen examined him instead to exaggerate, finally the
emotion that overcame them and they fell to her feet.

When her mother, in order to fathom the mystery, exclaiming that Helena
flee their closeness, she answered: that they are tomorrow and next day
all her life with her would spend, but they flehentlich please, not
to ask. This treasonous speech followed soon a full confession.
Signora of Campireali had met with disgust, the murderer of her son so
close to know. But this pain was followed by a lively stream of pure
joy. Who could imagine her delight when she learned that her daughter
was never against their duty had passed? Emergency changed the plans
of this wise mother altogether, it seemed to refer to a person
against which it had nothing to List to grasp.

Helena was the heart of the fiercest passions torn: the honesty of their
confessions was full, these martyred souls had the urge to be
distributed. Signora Campireali which allows for everything
now felt, invented a series of common sense reasons, which would lead
too far, we wanted to give them here again. They proved their
unfortunate daughter without difficulty that they held a secret
marriage, which is always a stigma for a woman was a public ceremony
in honor of all could gain if they are the act of obedience, she
such a noble lover owe, just to hinausschöbe eight days. You, the
Signora Campireali would travel to Rome, her husband, she would
explain that Helena long before the fateful battle of Ciampi with
Giulio was married. The wedding should be in the same night took
place, where she, disguised as monks, their father and brother on the
shore of the lake, on the rock in the road were encountered, the
length of the wall of the Capuchin monastery leads. The mother took
care of themselves, their daughter during the day alone, and finally
wrote Helena evening her lover as a child and seems to us a very
touching letter in which he struggles, which tore her heart had
portrayed. Finally she asked him knee due to a postponement of eight
days: "By this letter I write," she added, "a messenger on my
mother's waiting, it seems to me that the biggest injustice I've
committed it to say everything.

I believe you angry to see your eyes looking at me with hatred,
my heart is full of cruel self-reproaches torn. You will say that I
have a very weak, very diminished, very contemptuous character,
I admit it, my more expensive Engel. But imagine this drama before:
My mother, in tears, was almost to my knees.

Because it was quite impossible for me, it does not have to confess
that a certain basic forbid me, to give their request, and as I
once was so weak, that careless word to pronounce, I do not know
what I was experiencing, but it is impossible for me occurred, it
does not have anything to talk about what happened between us.

As far as I can remember, it seems to me that my soul , all naked
force, advice needed. I was hoping it in the words of my mother to find
... I had completely forgotten, my friend, that the interest of
this beloved mother your the opposite. I've forgotten my primary
duty, which is for you to obey, and apparently I am not capable
of true love, on which each test should be exalted. despise me, my
Giulio, but in the name of God, do not listen to me to love.
kidnappers me if you want, but cheap to me that the most terrible
dangers, even shame, that nothing in the world I could have prevented,
to obey your command, if my mother is not in the monastery would
have been.

But this mother is so good, you have so much Überredungsgabe! She is
so nobly! Remember, as was my father's room durchforschte, they
saved the letters, which I never had to hide. Then, when the danger
was over, she gave me her back, without having read it and without a
word of the allegation, you is my whole life to me, as they did
in that moment was the highest. You see, as I would love it. And yet
it seems to me, while I write to you (how awful to say) that I hate
them. She has stated that it that night because the heat in the garden
under a tent wanted, and I hear the hammer blows, you now set up the
tent, it is impossible that we will see tonight. I even fear that the
dormitory of the pensioner was locked inside, just the two doors of the
spiral staircase, which never happened. These precautions would
make it impossible for me to go down the garden, even if I take
such a step would be necessary in order to implore thy wrath.

Oh, how I would deliver to you now, if I would provide a means! As I
rush to the church, where we dare to be! "This letter concluded with
two great sets, in which I was passionate phrases, based on Plato's
ideas seem to be falling. I have just translated the letter several
records of this type suppressed. Giulio Branciforte was very surprised
when he was the evening for about an hour before the Ave Maria has
received this letter, he had grade the agreement ended with
the priest. He was beside himself with anger. "They did not need me
to advise that I kidnap them. This weak, timid creature! 'And he
broke immediately after the forest of La Faggiola. For Signora
Campireali was the case as follows: Her husband was lying on his
deathbed, and the inability to adapt to avenge Branciforte, brought him
slowly to the grave. In vain, he had several Roman Bravi substantial
sums can offer, none had been at one of the "corporal", as they
said, the Prince Colonna assault want, they certainly were, and their
families to be ausgetilgt. There was still no year ago that an entire
village as punishment for the death of a soldier Colonna was burnt,
and all the inhabitants, men and women, which in the Campagna
to flee searched were on the hands and feet shackled in the burning
houses thrown. Campireali Signora owned large assets in the Kingdom
of Naples, her husband had applied it, then come to be murderers, but
they had only a sham, since she believed her daughter inextricably
bound to Giulio Branciforte. In this condition she said that one
or two Giulio campaigns in the Spanish troops should take part, which
was the war against the insurgents resulted in Flanders. falls he does
not, it should be a sign that God does not disapprove a marriage that
did not prevent, in which case they would their daughter to goods
give what they had in the Kingdom of Naples, Giulio Branciforte would
name one of these possessions and take a few years with his wife in
Spain. After all these tests, they would perhaps find the courage
to see him. But everything since the confession was her daughter has
changed, the marriage was not a need for more - far from it - and
while her lover Helen wrote the letter, which we have played, wrote
Signora Campireali to Pescara and Chieti, and gave its tenants, the
order to secure their men after Castro to send the string to a hand
would be used.

You can not hide that it is a matter of the death Fabios, their young
master, to avenge. The Courier went to these letters before the
end of the day on the way . V. Even at the later days was back in
Giulio Castro, he has led eight of his soldiers with him, which
he had voluntarily followed, if they are equal to the wrath of the
princes suspended, the number of times companies of this kind with
the death penalty had.

Giulio had five men in the Castro and eight, he added, however, seemed
to him fourteen soldiers, as brave as it liked, not enough for his
company, because the monastery was like a fortress. It was a question
by the first gate of the monastery with violence or list to penetrate
and then through a corridor of more than fifty steps length to come.
Left hand should be barred window of a kind of barracks lie, where
the nuns thirty to forty servants, former soldiers, were placed.
For these barred windows would only when the monastery was alarmed, has
an extensive fire. The reigning abbess, a woman of strong mind, was
afraid of the undertakings of the Orsini, Colonna, Marco Sciarra, and
so many else, which dominated the surrounding area. How was it possible
, eight hundred men determined to resist, if they are suddenly a
small town like Castro revenue because they are the monastery with
gold filled believed?

Usually were in the monastery of the Visitation of Castro fifteen or
twenty Bravi in the barracks to the left of the Ganges, the second
led Klosterpforte; to the right of this passage was based on a
high, impenetrable wall, to its end was an iron gate, which is
designed to Säulenhalle led, after this came the great monastery,
the right of the garden.

The iron door was guarded by the Pförtnerin. As Giulio with its eight
men, three miles from Castro had made it in a remote inn stop for the
hour of the great heat to pass. There, he presented his first project
and while he drew the plan of the monastery, which he wanted to attack
in the sand of the yard. "At nine clock", he said his people,
"we will be out of town for dinner, at midnight we will enter. Your
five comrades await us in the vicinity of the monastery. One of
them is on horseback, and the role of a courier to play, from
Rome to Signora Campireali from her husband to call, which is dying.
We will try to silently through the first door of the monastery to
come, "he said, by giving to the plan indicated in the Sand," which
here in the middle of the barracks is located. When we fight right at
the first gate start, have the Bravi the nuns to light, gun shots
nachzusenden us while we're at this little place since before the
monastery, or through the narrow passage between the first and
second gate running.

This second gate is of iron, but I've got the key to this.

However, there are large , with one end attached to a wall of iron bars
or rods lock because what if they are presented, opening the doors
to prevent. But since the two iron rods are too heavy, as the sister
Pförtnerin that they could handle, I have never in their Square seen
yet and I'm more than ten times gone by the iron.

I expect that this evening without hindrance mainland. You probably
remember that I have friends in the monastery. My goal is: a
Pensionärin to kidnap, and not a nun, and we allowed only in extreme
emergency by the use of weapons. If we open up the struggle before
us in this second door with iron arrived, the Pförtnerin not miss it,
two old siebzigjährige gardeners who live in the monastery, to
bring, and that Old would provide the poles.

If we zustößt of this tragedy, we must first demolish the wall to walk
through the door to come, giving us ten minutes would cost in any event,
I will be the first rush to the door. One of the gardeners is purchased
by me but, as you may think, I kept him somewhat from my abduction plan
to tell. If this second door behind him, turn to the right into the
garden, and we are only in this garden, so to speak the weapons, we
must do everything down, which is reflected in the way.

You will naturally only your need swords and daggers, and a single gun
shot would be the whole town in uproar and it would bring us to
the deduction attack.

Do not believe that I am with Thirteen men, as you're not strong
enough to feel, through this nest to come: no one would dare safely
on the road down, but several people have shotguns and they would
shoot from the windows.

By the way one must in this case along The houses hold. Once in the
garden, says your in a low voice to each of shows that draw you back!
and if he does not immediately obey, kill him with your dagger. then
I urge those of you who are just about me , by the small garden in the
monastery, and three minutes later I return with one or two women
that we put on our arms and not let themselves be.

Immediately we rushed to leave the monastery and the city. Two of
you will I near the gate to leave, they will be from minute to
minute twenty shots competence in order to scare the citizens and
to keep away.

"Giulio repeated this statement twice." Have you understood? " He said
his people. "In the lobby there will be dark, and to the right is
the garden, left the yard, you may not be wrong." "Count on us!" cried
the soldier. Then they went to drink, the corporal followed them
and asked for permission to speak with the captain to be. "Nothing
is easier," he said, "as the plan of your graces. I've been twice in
my life caved in monasteries; this would be the third, but we're too
little. If the enemy compels us, to destroy the wall, which the
angel holds the second door, you must remember that during this long
Bravi work does not remain idle, and you are seven or eight man can
shoot and then we were back at the woman again decrease. This is us
in a monastery near Bologna happened: we were five men killed, we
killed eight, but the captain was not the woman. I propose your
grace two steps: I known that there are four farmers from the vicinity
of this hostel, which have served bravely Sciarra and sequins for the
whole night long as lions would suggest. Maybe they have something
silver away from the monastery and the care you little, because the
sin is their thing, and you pay them to pick a woman, that's all.
My second proposal is the following: Ugone is a clever and very clever
lad, he was a doctor, when he killed his brother and went into the
scrub. You can him an hour before sunset to send monastery, he will
ask for service and it is set up so cleverly that it is in the guard
einreiht, then he will be servants of the nuns drunk, and he is
even able to fuse their Shotguns to soak. "To his misfortune Giulio
adopted the proposal of the corporal. As it is distant, he adds:" We
want to attack a monastery. This is excommunicatio major and more:
this monastery is directly under the protection of the Virgin Mary
... "" I understand, "cried Giulio, aufgerüttelt by this word."

Stay with me. "The corporal opened the door and came back to the
rosary to pray with Giulio. The prayer lasted a full hour. When it
was night, broke it on.

As it was midnight, Giulio returned, against eleven of the clock only
after Castro had gone back to his people to get the outside the gate
had been waiting for.

He met with his eight man facing three well-armed peasants were connected
in the city, and united with the five soldiers, which he already
had in the city, so he was at the forefront of sixteen resolute
men, two dressed as servants wore long blouses made of black canvas,
in order to conceal their giacco and their caps were decorated with
feathers.

Half an hour after midnight came Giulio, the role of courier for
themselves had, in the horse before at the monastery, he made great
noise and shouting that you immediately open a courier may wish to
send the Cardinal. With pleasure he noticed that the soldiers
assigned to it through the small window next to the gate replied,
half were drunk. The rule subsequently, he wrote his name on a
piece of paper, a soldier brought the name of the Pförtnerin,
which is the key to the second door and the abbess had in besondren
cases had to awaken. The answer was three-quarters of endless hours
to wait. During this time, Giulio much effort his squad to keep
quiet, some people opened their windows already careful; finally met
a favorable response from the abbess On; Giulio was followed by
two soldiers disguised as servants, with the help of a five-or
six-foot-long wire, the to him from the small window enough, the
guard entered the Bravi of the monastery would not bother, the great
gate opens. When he was out of the window into Wachzimmer jumped,
his eyes met the gaze Ugones the entire Guard was thanks to its
prevention, drunk. Giulio said the commander, that three ministers
of Campireali, which he had equipped as soldiers, to march on him
to protect the very good spirits and had bought at the inlet Baeten,
so they are not alone on the place would be bored. This was
unanimously approved. He himself went with his two people down the
stairs, which the guard in the corridor leading. "Trachte the big
door to open," he said to Ugone. Then he came to the iron door
unchallenged.

There he found the good Pförtnerin, which he said that now that was
past midnight when he would be admitted into the monastery, the
Abbess the bishop would have to report.

That's why they let him ask his messages to the younger sister over
which the abbess to send this purpose. What Giulio replied that
because of the consternation caused by the unexpected death of Signor
caused by Campireali was he would have only a simple doctor executed
by the credentials to remove all the details, he should verbally
of his wife and daughter of health report, if these women were still
in the monastery, and in any case, the woman abbess.

The Pförtnerin was this message to convey. Nobody was at the door
as the younger sister, the abbess had sent.

Giulio chatted and joked with her while he put his hands through
the thick iron bars of the gate and tried it, still laughing, to open.
The sister was very shy, she was scared and took the bad jokes on.
As had Giulio, who saw considerable time passed, the carelessness,
the sister to a handful of sequins, asking him to establish, because
he was too tired to wait. "He knew well that he committed stupidity,"
says the narrator, "he had with iron and not have to work with gold,
but he had not the heart to, not easier, as the sister to conquer,
it was not further than a foot wide of his own, on the other side
of the door. [sic! probably missing here: "] By offering the sequins,
the girl in terror. She said later that they come from the way Giulio
had spoken to her, probably would have understood that he was no ordinary
messenger: 'This is the lover of our nuns,' she thought, 'to come
to a tryst', and they was pious. Taken from horror, she began with
all the force of a small bell cord to pull in the big yard and was at
once made a noise to wake dead. "The war begins," said Giulio his
people, "give careful!" He took his keys, and the arm between the iron
bars squeeze through, he opened the door to the greatest distress
of the young nun who complained about the church sacrilege horrified
screaming on his knees and threw Ave Maria began to pray. Even at this
moment would Giulio the girl to silence, but he had not the heart
to, one of his men grabbed her and shut her mouth. At the same
moment heard Giulio in the hallway behind a shotgun shot. Ugone had the
great gate opened, the other soldiers were without noise, when one of
the less drunken Bravi of the guard is one of the barred window, and
approached his surprise so many people in the hallway to see them banned
swearing to go on. You would not answer and quiet against the iron
door proceed as it did the first, but the last of the series, one
of the afternoon until recruited peasants, fired a pistol shot
from the monastery servant who called out through the window, and
killed him .

This pistol shot in the middle of the night and the shouting of
drunks, as they saw their comrades fall, awoke those soldiers, what
the night in their beds and were not Ugones had tasted wine.

Bravi Eight or ten of the monastery jumped half-naked in the
corridor and attacked the soldiers in fierce Brancifortes. As we have
said, this noise started at the moment, as Giulio the iron gate had
opened.

Of his two soldiers followed, he crashed into the garden and ran
to the little door to the staircase inside the pensioner led.

But he was five or six pistol shots received. His two soldiers fell,
he got a bullet in the right arm.

To-day of all days you can decide, for you
have made the trial and the result is fresh. [6] With such thoughts as
these in your hearts you will grow braver and better still. And now
you may rest in the consciousness that you are dear to God and have
done your duty bravely and steadily, and so take your meal and make
your libations and sing the paean and be ready for the watchword."

So saying, Cyrus mounted his horse and galloped on to Cyaxares, and
the two rejoiced together as victors will. And then, after a glance at
matters there and an inquiry if aught were needed, he rode back to his
own detachment. Then the evening meal was taken and the watches were
posted and Cyrus slept with his men.

[8] Meanwhile the Assyrians, finding that their king was among the
slain and almost all his nobles with him, fell into utter despair, and
many of them deserted during the night. And at this fear crept over
Croesus and the allies; they saw dangers on every side, and heaviest
of all was the knowledge that the leading nation, the head of the
whole expedition, had received a mortal blow. Nothing remained but to
abandon the encampment under cover of night. [9] Day broke, and the
camp was seen to be deserted, and Cyrus, without more ado, led his
Persians within the entrenchments, where they found the stores that
the enemy had left: herds of sheep and goats and kine, and long rows
of waggons laden with good things. Cyaxares and his Medes followed,
and all arms took their breakfast in the camp. [10] But when the meal
was over, Cyrus summoned his brigadiers and said to them:

"Think what blessings we are flinging away now, spurning, as it were,
the very gifts of heaven! So at least it seems to me. The enemy have
given us the slip, as you see with your own eyes. Is it likely that
men who forsook the shelter of their own fortress will ever face us in
fair field on level ground? Will those who shrink from us before they
put our prowess to the test ever withstand us now when we have
overthrown and shattered them? They have lost their best and bravest,
and will the cowards dare to give us battle?"

[11] At that one of his officers cried, "Why not pursue at once, if
such triumphs are before us?"

And Cyrus answered, "Because we have not the horses. The stoutest of
our enemies, those whom we must seize or slay, are mounted on steeds
that could sweep past us like the wind. God helping us, we can put
them to flight, but we cannot overtake them."

[12] "Then," said they, "why not go and lay the matter before
Cyaxares?"

And he answered, "If so, you must all go with me, that Cyaxares may
see it is the wish of all."

So they all went together and spoke as they thought best. [13] Now
Cyaxares felt, no doubt, a certain jealousy that the Persians should
be the first to broach the matter, but he may also have felt that it
was really wiser to run no further risks for the present; he had,
moreover, abandoned himself to feasting and merrymaking, and he saw
that most of his Medes were in like case. Whatever the reason, this
was the answer he gave:

[14] "My good nephew, I have always heard and always seen that you
Persians of all men think it your duty never to be insatiate in the
pursuit of any pleasure; and I myself believe that the greater the joy
the more important is self-restraint. Now what greater joy could there
be than the good fortune which waits on us to-day? [15] When fortune
comes to us, if we guard her with discretion, we may live to grow old
in peace, but if we are insatiate, if we use and abuse our pleasures,
chasing first one and then another, we may well fear lest that fate be
ours which, the proverb tells us, falls on those mariners who cannot
forgo their voyages in the pursuit of wealth, and one day the deep sea
swallows them. Thus has many a warrior achieved one victory only to
clutch at another and lose the first. [16] If indeed, our enemies who
have fled were weaker than we, it might be safe enough to pursue them.
But now, bethink you, how small a portion of them we have fought and
conquered; the mass have had no part in the battle, and they, if we do
not force them to fight, will take themselves off through sheer
cowardice and sloth. As yet they know nothing of our powers or their
own, but if they learn that to fly is as dangerous as to hold their
ground, we run the risk of driving them to be brave in spite of
themselves. [17] You may be sure they are just as anxious to save
their wives and children as you can be to capture them. Take a lesson
from hunting: the wild sow when she is sighted will scamper away with
her young, though she be feeding with the herd; but if you attack her
little ones she will never fly, even if she is all alone; she will
turn on the hunters. [18] Yesterday the enemy shut themselves up in a
fort, and then handed themselves over to us to choose how many we
cared to fight. But if we meet them in open country, and they learn
how to divide their forces and take us in front and flank and rear, I
wonder how many pairs of eyes and hands each man of us would need!
Finally," he added, "I have no great wish myself to disturb my Medes
in their enjoyment, and drive them out to further dangers."

[19] Then Cyrus took him up: "Nay, I would not have you put pressure
on any man; only let those who are willing follow me, and perhaps we
shall come back with something for all of you to enjoy. The mass of
the enemy we should not think of pursuing; indeed, how could we
overtake them? But if we cut off any stragglers, we could clap hands
on them and bring them back to you. [20] Remember," he added, "when
you sent for us, we came a long way to do you service; is it not fair
that you should do us a kindness in return, and let us have something
to take back with us for ourselves, and not stand here agape at all
your treasures?"

[21] At that Cyaxares answered, "Ah, if any will follow you of their
own free will, I can but be most grateful."

"Send some one with me then," said Cyrus, "from these trusty men of
yours, to carry your commands."

"Take whomever you like," he answered, "and begone."

[22] Now, as it chanced, among the officers present was the Mede who
had claimed kinship with Cyrus long ago and won a kiss thereby. Cyrus
pointed to him and said, "That man will do for me." "He shall go with
you then," Cyaxares replied. And turning to the officer, "Tell your
fellows," he said, "that he who lists may follow Cyrus." [23] Thus
Cyrus chose his man and went forth. And when they were outside he
said, "To-day you can show me if you spoke truth long ago when you
told me that the sight of me was your joy."

"If you say that," said the Mede, "I will never leave you."

"And will you not do your best," added Cyrus, "to bring me others
too?" "By the gods in heaven," cried the Mede, "that I will, until you
say in your turn that to see me is your joy." Thereupon, with the
authority of Cyaxares to support him, the officer went to the Medes
and delivered with message with all diligence, adding that he for one
would never forsake Cyrus, the bravest, noblest, and best of men, and
a hero whose lineage was divine.

[C.2] While Cyrus was busied with these matters, by some strange
chance two ambassadors arrived from the Hyrcanians. These people are
neighbours of the Assyrians, and being few in number, they were held
in subjection. But they seemed then, as they seem now, to live on
horseback. Hence the Assyrians used them as the Lacedaemonians employ
the Skirites, for every toil and every danger, without sparing them.
In fact, at that very moment they had ordered them to furnish a rear-
guard of a thousand men and more, so as to bear the brunt of any rear
attack. [2] The Hyrcanians, as they were to be the hindmost, had put
their waggons and families in the rear, for, like most of the tribes
in Asia, they take their entire households with them on the march. [3]
But when they thought of the sorry treatment they got from the
Assyrians and when they saw the king fallen, the army worsted and a
prey to panic, the allies disheartened and ready to desert, they
judged it a fine moment to revolt themselves, if only the Medes and
Persians would make common cause with them. Eight or ten people rushed
out of the hostel, and as such the first of Bordeaux was the enlightened
house. Saint-Ismier looked good that half the people were armed. He
took his legs under his arms and ran, what he could. 'I have killed
a man,' said he, "I am more than revenge for a blow to the arm.
Incidentally, prison or death for me the same thing. Only me, I
Rochegude falls into the hands of the head certainly on the square
behind, and on a street corner, I die as a valiant man in battle
for my life. "But our hero ran, but what he could for his life to save.
He came back to the church, came in a very wide and it seemed like a
very long road. The pursuers were, when they are two or three hundred
paces behind him were hergelaufen. It was high time for the very loose
atem Chevalier. He also stopped, about a hundred steps further than
the pursuer, he made himself, he is strongly bent, as small as
possible, then he hid behind the pillars of a breast Defense that
are in the street about six eight feet in front of the houses was.

The pursuers appeared again, and the Chevalier began again as best he
could to run the increasingly wide long street.

As he heard steps in front of the beat, he immediately stopped running
in the Group. 'The throng guard! " he thought. And threw constantly
in a very narrow side street, ran through many alleyways, every half
minute standing still, listening, he was initially only on
cats, which he fears einjagte, but when he was in a lane einbog,
he heard four five men come, he heard her clearly heavy and probably
set speeches.

"Again the guard! The devil get me! "He just stood on a massive, coarse
woodcarved gate, but ten steps which he noticed a very small
door, he crashed out. The door was open. He disappeared behind
and verschnaufte. He thought the men who talk he had heard it would
happen here have seen and come in behind him, then he would hide
behind the door and when the men entered, and up in the small
courtyard garden, which he said, would come, to this door led, he
would see again, and that he also weiterkomme.

Schweratmend He stood behind the small door and waited. The men
were just talking and it is. But they did not and went on. Fear in
the limbs slipped Saint Ismier in what seemed to him a garden of
tall trees because he came into a large courtyard, then into a
smaller, more of it with small marble slabs paved seemed. He peered
carefully whether he could see no one with whom he could speak. 'This
is a rich house. Better, I could not take it. I find there a Domestiken,
it shall be receptive to my thalers and me to the Palais Miossens
bring. Maybe he hides me for two thalers tonight and tomorrow in his
room. Yes, who knows, maybe he will even have my own servant? Lucky
me, I could not have wished for. "Such was hoping Saint-Ismier
a staircase, which he hinaufstieg. It led to the first floor, where
they stopped. He stepped on a balcony and looked around. Because it
was him when he hear a noise on the stairs. He immediately swung
over the railing of the balcony and stepped on a cornice of the house
wall, with his hands he held to the wooden blinds to the next
window. Cautiously, he touched on the next ledge and came to a
second balcony, from the first a few feet away. Through an open
window he went. It seemed like a marble and very beautiful staircase
led to the second floor. Here he stood in front of a decorated with
golden nails Türvorhang. Through the gap between the ground and
Türvorhang came a faint light. He pulled the bell softly to himself
and stood against a door with silver or copper ornaments glittered
in the darkness. But more important for the poor little Chevalier was
the light that penetrated through the keyhole. He took his eye out,
but he saw nothing, he thought a curtain between them, in the space
near the front of the door hung. 'This is definitely a distinguished
living room,' said he. His next idea was to make no noise. 'But', he
thought, 'yes, finally, I must also try to talk with someone, and
so alone, lost in a spacious home and in the middle of the night,
it's better, I speak with a Mr. instead of a poodle.

The Lord will easily understand that I am not a thief. "He grabbed my
left hand with the porter, holding this aside, and took the right
on the doorknob, it opened very quietly and said, with his amiable
voice," Mr. Graf, allow that I advocate? "No answer. He stayed a while
in his position on the floor between his feet the sword so that he, if
necessary, would have quickly at hand. He repeated the compliment,
as irritating as possible out of him: "Mr.

Graf, will you allow me, that I advocate?" No answer. The chevalier
saw himself in the magnificence of the latest style to precious
ceremonial chamber. The walls are covered gebuckelte gilded leather
wallpaper. The door opposite was a powerful cabinet made of ebony
with a lot of small pillars, whose capitals were from Perlmutter.

To the right spread a bed whose curtains of red damask seemed to apply.
He could not see into the bed. One Fußsäule that he could say, was
gilded. Two genii, probably from Goldbronce, supported with their
arms held up a small table with ockergoldner plate and two gilded
candelabra stood out in which an a candle was burning, and the Chevalier
was not a little worried, was that he is next to the burning chandeliers
clearly five, six fabulous jeweled rings lightning lie saw. He made
a small step into the chamber, with small bow-shy and amiable "Forgive
me, Mr. Graf." About a fireplace hung a shining Venetian mirror. There
stood a large desk, with heavy green silk covered. Also on this
table rings and a steinverzierte clock; her quiet ticking was the
only discernible noise in the room. 'How is the owner of all these
treasures yelp when he now jumps out of bed and saw me!

But I must still come to an end, one way or another. A quarter of an
hour I've been in futility, and in the crazy hope is lost, not for a
thief to be kept. " He let the door go in with a little noise included.
She was not from the inside to open, as the Chevalier equally convincing.
'I'm trapped,' he said, and investigated more precisely the door,
it was impossible to open them. 'I'm locked up. " From this circumstance
alarmed the Chevalier was determined on the bed. Its curtains were
firmly apply. He proposed them apart, always smiling all sorts of
excuses for the person in bed suspected stammering. The bed was empty.
But in sufficient disarray, which said that it is still occupied.

The curtains were of lace. The Chevalier grabbed the candlestick, to
better see, he put a hand under the blanket, it was still warm
there. Now hurry examined the prisoner with the chandelier room after
starting, to his great annoyances, he found no other than the door,
the inside did not open, and a window.

He knew nothing andres than the bed curtains and rip it to something
like a rope to rotate, which allows it to descend through the window
in a dark uncertain venture could be in about forty feet deep, as
he estimated, as if the roof or below a yard is to be distinguished,
he wasted effort.

"And what if I am down there quite irrelevant and healing? I am
perhaps just as trapped as it is here. "As a thought flashed on him:
'I do not see the sword here in the room. The valet of the house in
question here have to make their personal clothes away with no doubt.
But his sword to him but they had dagelassen. But perhaps thieves
penetrated into the house and he has done for their persecution to leave
the bed, the sword in his fist? Strange it is that no weapon in the
room is. "And with the utmost care of the Chevalier went out to
Investigate the room. Since he was very close to the bed on the carpet
in two small white silk shoes and a pair of very thin silk
stockings. 'I'm a big sheep's head! I'm here with a woman! "Immediately
thereafter he found a few garters made of silver tip on an armchair
in a small pink satin skirt. 'It is a young woman', he dazzled, and his
curiosity was aroused so powerful that it throughout his fear of
prison or more before death forgot that his only feeling was since the
minute, when he was the young man the middle of the road had niedergestochen.
In his curiosity of the Chevalier forgot completely, for a thief
to be held. He opened, the light in the hand, the sword under his arm
all the drawers of the toilet table. He found a large quantity of
precious jewelry and exquisite taste, and some small cassette
contributed inscriptions engraved in the Italian language. 'The mistress
of this area must have been at court,' said he. He was extremely small
gloves that were worn. 'She Lovely hands,' he said. As he ran to his
greatest joy in a letter. "This chamber is of an apparently young
and beautiful woman inhabited. A man makes her the Court and without
happiness. " Des Chevaliers initial curiosity was satisfied, and a great
weariness came over him. To get a time to give, probably the
same person to be occurring, he seated himself in the Alcove wall
between the bed and settled. He certainly expected to watching the end
of an adventure waiting for him, the poor could expect, but he fell
asleep very quickly. He woke from the noise of the small door on the
chambermaid, she had opened. "Go to bed. I need you no more. But
wake me immediately if my mother goes bad again.

"Saint-Ismier had, from the sleep geschreckt little time, these were
words to understand. The bed curtain opened and a young girl
stood there, a candelabrum with two burning candles in their hands,
the full light cast on the room. A tremendous fear manifesting itself
in their trains, as they are behind her bed a blutbedeckten man saw.
She pushed a little scream, based on the bed. And rigid distorted the
face of horror, as Saint-Ismier is up, in order to help.

Now she cried out loud and fell, like the Chevalier of the learned
result in impotence, first on the bed, then on the ground. The
chandelier fell and vanished. Saint-Ismier knew not only what to do
and he was helpless. The last vestiges of sleep off drunkenness, he
seated himself with a jerk on. He grabbed his sword and listened,
it was the deepest silence. He checked the things about him his legs
had fallen, there was a woman he believed dead, he grabbed a
handful, their small size and delicate skin made him think that it was
a woman who killed any enthusiasm addicts have. 'Man must help her, 'he
said of himself and had that moment again cold blood. The head
of the woman was lying on his knee. He moved it gently as he could,
back, lifted the head and embedded it on a stool. He took so much
heat under the armpits of the womb, as he pointed that the idea came
to him, the person probably just a result of a large wound to faint.
"I have everything in the world out of here, 'said he. 'There is
no hope, with the jealous husband, or the angry father, which this
lady was killed, to talk sensibly. Impossible that he did not immediately
return to see whether his revenge or succeeded to the corpse away, and
he finds me here blutbedeckt and I can not say, as here, so it can
easily invade the idea, to my cost innocent and to me as the murderer
of this lady to call, I could not respond, the mind would have. "With
the utmost caution rose Saint-Ismier, only very carefully, the lady
does not hurt to do that in the narrow alley bed with him was. But
since his foot was on the candelabrum, with great noise rolled into
the room. The Chevalier stood there, motionless, and the hand on the
sword handle. But everything remained quiet. Step by step, was
now Saint-Ismier the chamber, with the sword palpate the walls. It
was in vain, he was not even opening the door, the outside was open
only to non-violence does not break. From new, he opened the window.
There was neither a bar nor a cornice, which had allowed an outbreak.
"I've really nothing to be ashamed of me if I am to this incident
on the run from the prison on the scaffold is: I've set myself
caught."

He listened, it was him as if he had something on her bed move belongs.
He scanned the darkness rushed out. It was believed wounded, the young
lady who made the fainting awakened by the sound was that he
made with the window. He took her arm and when she brought the
fear to be completely. Since they snatched his arm with the chevalier,
and gave a bump, so strong she could. "You are a monster, what you are
doing is horrible, you want to besmirch my honor and I am thus forcing
your wife to be.

But I know all Their intentions not to do. If you, me in the eyes of
the world, dishonor, I rather go to the monastery, except that I have
a book of Marquise will. "The Chevalier took a few steps back to the
other side of the bed. "Excuse me, Madame, the fear that I caused you.
First of all, I can give you an excellent piece of news to report:
I am not the Marquis of book, I am the Chevalier de Saint-Ismier,
captain in the Royal Regiment Cravatte from which you , I believe,
have never heard speak. I am in Bordeaux tonight to re-clock arrived,
and in search of the home of Miossens I was from a gutgekleideten
people with the sword attacked on the road.

We have beaten and I have killed him. I have been prosecuted. I
found a small door open, they resulted in your garden. I climbed up a
staircase, and since I am still pursuing believed I climbed over a
balcony into a Antichambre. I saw the light and came here, with many
apologies for the gentleman that I was bothered, and told him it was
something ridiculous, according to my whole story, as I mentioned
it just now doing.

I died with fear, for a thief to be held. All my civilities were
ridiculous reason that I am only after an hour realized that the
bed was empty.

Then I am, it seems asleep. I woke up when the body of a dead woman
fell on me. I grabbed a delightful little hand, I'm here in the bridal
chamber of a very jealous nobleman, whose wealth and taste to
admire all the opportunity I had. I said to myself, the jealous would
argue that I have his wife killed. Since I put your brains, Madame,
so delicate I could, on a stool, and tried my last, from this
chamber out. I repeat, Madame, I consider myself to be a very valiant
man, and since am tonight at nine for the first time in Bordeaux.
So I've never seen, Madame, do not even know your name and am in despair
about the inconvenient that I am doing. But you have me at least nothing
to fear. [Sic! Missing: "]" I do my utmost to give me security, "said
the lady for a while." I think everything you say, but the cruel
coincidence of circumstances, let me tell my honor cost.
Such
conduct, methinks, would be little worthy of our race."

[47] So Hystaspas spoke, and the rest approved him, one and all. Then
Cyrus said:

"Come now, since we are all of one mind, each of you give me five of
the trustiest fellows in his company, and let them go the rounds, and
see how the supplies are furnished; let them praise the active
servants, and where they see neglect, chastise them more severely than
their own masters could."

Thus they dealt with these matters.

[C.3] But it was not long before some of the Medes returned: one set
had overtaken the waggons that had gone ahead, seized them and turned
them back, and were now driving them to the camp, laden with all that
an army could require, and others had captured the covered carriages
in which the women rode, the wives of the Assyrian grandees or their
concubines, whom they had taken with them because of their beauty. [2]
Indeed, to this day the tribes of Asia never go on a campaign without
their most precious property: they say they can fight better in the
presence of their beloved, feeling they must defend their treasures,
heart and soul. It may be so, but it may also be that the desire for
pleasure is the cause.

[3] And when Cyrus saw the feats of arms that the Medes and the
Hyrcanians had performed, he came near reproaching himself and those
that were with him; the others, he felt, had risen with the time, had
shown their strength and won their prizes, while he and his had stayed
behind like sluggards. Indeed it was a sight to watch the victors
riding home, driving their spoil before them, pointing it out with
some display to Cyrus, and then dashing off again at once in search of
more, according to the instructions they had received.

But though he ate out his heart with envy Cyrus was careful to set all
their booty apart; and then he summoned his own officers again, and
standing where they could all hear what he had to propose, he spoke as
follows:

[4] "My friends, you would all agree, I take it, that if the spoils
displayed to us now were our own to keep, wealth would be showered on
every Persian in the land, and we ourselves, no doubt, through whom it
was won, would receive the most. But what I do not see is how we are
to get possession of such prizes unless we have cavalry of our own.
[5] Consider the facts," he continued, "we Persians have weapons with
which, we hope, we can rout the enemy at close quarters: but when we
do rout them, what sort of horsemen or archers or light-armed troops
could ever be caught and killed, if we can only pursue them on foot?
Why should they ever be afraid to dash up and harry us, when they know
full well that they run no greater risk at our hands than if we were
stumps in their orchards? [6] And if this be so, it is plain that the
cavalry now with us consider every gain to be as much theirs as ours,
and possibly even more, God wot! [7] At present things must be so:
there is no help for it. But suppose we were to provide ourselves with
as good a force as our friends, it must be pretty evident to all of
us, I think, that we could then deal with the enemy by ourselves
precisely as we do now with their help, and then perhaps we should
find that they would carry their heads less high. It would be of less
importance to us whether they chose to stay or go, we should be
sufficient for ourselves without them. [8] So far then I expect that
no one will disagree: if we could get a body of Persian cavalry it
would make all the difference to us; but no doubt you feel the
question is, how are we to get it? Helena had a hiding place in
her old nurse, who makes her benefactions had a small shop to keep.
Hardly arrived, she wrote to Branciforte, and the nurse was not
without difficulty, a man who would dare, into the forest of La Faggiola,
without the password for the People of the Colonna to know. After
three days came from Helena envoy messenger totally distraught back
until it was impossible to find Branciforte and his incessant questions
about the young captain had made him suspicious, so he finally was
forced to flee. "One can not doubt the poor Giulio is dead , 'said
the Helena,' and I am the one who killed him! This had the wretched
result of my weakness and my timidity on which it would have been a
strong woman to love, the daughter of any captain of the Prince Colonna
... "The nurse thought that Helena would die. They climbed up to the
Capuchin monastery, where the rock in the road, where once in the middle
of the night and his father Fabio the two lovers met, was. The nurse
spoke at length with her confessor and under the seal of confession,
she admitted to him that the young Helena Campireali with Giulio
Branciforte, her husband, wanted to unite and that they would be
inclined, the monastery a silver lamp in the value of one hundred
Spanish piasters to donate. "piasters hundred!" the monk replied,
irritated. "And what of our monastery, when we have the hatred of the
Signor Campireali us to draw? There were not hundreds piasters, but
maybe thousand, without the candle wax to which he has given us to the
corpse of his son from the battlefield of Ciampi back. "You have to
honor of the monastery reported as two elderly monks, what exactly
about the situation of the young Helen was informed, after Albano
hinabstiegen to them by persuasion or by force to make the palace
in her family to return it knew that Signor of Campireali she would
richly reward. Quite Albano was talk about the flight of Helen
and the story of the brilliant promises are fulfilled, where their
mother was exposed to their messages via the residence of the daughter
would give. But the two monks were from despair Helena, the Giulio
Branciforte believed dead, so moved that she, far from betraying
them and their mother displayed her refuge, even agreed to it up
to the fortress of La Petrella to escort.

Helena and Marietta went at night, again as a workman, to walk to
a particular source in the forest of La Faggiola, an hour away from
Albano.

The monks had mules get there, and as the day dawned, it was on his way.
The monks, who under the protection of the princes were, were by the
soldiers, whom they met in the forest, greeted with respect, but not
so the two young stripling, whom they accompanied the soldiers saw it
first with strict views on them and came , then broke into laughter
and turned to the monks of compliments because of the allure of their
mule drivers. "Quiet, atheists! and know that everything on the orders
of Prince Colonna done," replied the monks in Weiterschreiten. But
poor Helen had the misfortune; the Prince of La Petrella was
absent, and when he her three days later, after his return, finally
granted an audience, he treated them very hard. "Why, your here, Miss?
What does this careless step? Your Wives chatter has seven of
the Italy's bravest men fallen into ruin, and that you will no
intelligent person ever awarded. In this world you have to want or
not want. Without doubt, it is new Klatschereien to thank Giulio
Branciforte desecration of the church accused and condemned to be two
hours glowing tongs tweaked and then as a Jew to be burned, he, one
of the best Christians I know, as we would have done without your
shameful this terrible lie you can invent, to know where that Giulio
Branciforte on the day of the raid in the monastery was Castro All
my people will tell you that it is precisely on this day here in La
Petrella has seen and that I do in the evening after Velletri sent.
"" But he lives? " cried the young Helena for the tenth time,
they broke into tears. "For you he is dead," exclaimed the prince, "You
will never see again. I advise you, in your return to the monastery in
Castro and guard you, to talk again, within an hour you will have
to leave La Petrella.
"

[22] "And ours too," they all cried, "ours too, in heaven's name!"

Then Cyrus spoke: "Gentlemen, since we are all so well agreed, suppose
we make it a rule that every one who receives a horse from me shall be
considered to disgrace himself if he is seen trudging afoot, be his
journey long or short?"

[23] Thus Cyrus put the question, and one and all assented; and hence
it is that even to this day the custom is retained, and no Persian of
the gentle class would willingly be seen anywhere on foot.

[C.4] In this debate their time was spent, and when it was past midday
the Median cavalry and the Hyrcanians came galloping home, bringing in
men and horses from the enemy, for they had spared all who surrendered
their arms. [2] As they rode up the first inquiry of Cyrus was whether
all of them were safe, and when they answered yes, he asked what they
had achieved. And they told their exploits in detail, and how bravely
they had borne themselves, magnifying it all. [3] Cyrus heard their
story through with a pleasant smile, and praised them for their work.
"I can see for myself," he said, "that you have done gallant deeds.
You seem to have grown taller and fairer and more terrible to look on
than when we saw you last."

[4] Then he made them tell him how far they had gone, and whether they
had found the country inhabited. With your tiquis-miquis theologies and
heaven, you are heartless and mischievous as the hunter who brings in
the thrushes whistle bobalicones to be hanged on the hanger. -
Antoñona - answered D.

Luis - leave me alone. By God, I am not tormented. I am an evil: I
confess. I should not look at your love. I should not give him to
understand that love, but I loved and still love her with all my heart
and I have not bebedizo or filter, but the same love that I do. We
must, however, discard, forget this love. God sent me. Can you imagine
that it is that is not that great sacrifice will not be what? Pepita
be coated with the same fortitude and sacrifice. - You do not even give
that to the wretched consolation - retorted Antoñona -. You
willingly sacrifice on the altar to that woman who loves you, which
is already yours; your victim: she, where you have to sacrifice
yourself for what jewel pulls out of the window, which finds the
prime nice fire, love but a poorly paid? How to give to God what is
not? Are you going to fool God and say: 'My God, since he does not
want me, then you sacrifice, she does not want me? "God does not
laugh: if God laugh, this is such a laugh. Don Luis , stunned, did not
know what object to this reasoning of Antoñona, pinching its most
heinous past.

In addition, we enter repugnant metaphysical love with that servant. -
Let us put aside - he said - those vain discourses.

I can not remedy the evil of your own. What should I do? - What did
you do? - Antoñona interrupted, and more soft and loving voice and
insinuating -. I will tell you what you do. If no evil remediares
my girl, we are helped at least. Are not you so holy? Because the
saints are also compassionate and courageous. Do not flee as a cobardón
rude, without saying goodbye. Come and see my girl, who is ill. Make
this work of mercy. - And what I get with this visit? Aggravate the
evil instead of sanarle. - Do not be like this: you're not in
busilis. You going there and, with that talk and you spend the lips
that God has given you, you breathe in helmets resignation and leave
the console and if you tell her you love her and that God just stop
at unless your wife is not vanity ajada.
This," he added, "we wish you to understand yourselves and make known
among your fellows. [13] And if it should appear that you yourselves
are willing to comply but others hinder you, lead us against them, and
you shall be their masters, not they yours."

Such were his words; and they made obeisance and promised to do as he
bade.

[C.5] And when they were gone, Cyrus turned to the Medes and the men
of Armenia, and said, "It is high time, gentlemen, that we should
dine, one and all of us; food and drink are prepared for you, the best
we had skill to find. Send us, if you will, the half of the bread that
has been baked; there is ample, I know, for both of us; but do not
send any relish with it, nor any drink, we have quite enough at hand.
[2] And do you," he added, turning to the Hyrcanians, "conduct our
friends to their quarters, the officers to the largest tents--you know
where they are--and the rest where you think best. For yourselves, you
may dine where you like; your quarters are intact, and you will find
everything there prepared for you exactly as it is for the others. [3]
All of you alike must understand that during the night we Persians
will guard the camp outside, but you must keep an eye over what goes
on within; and see that your arms are ready to hand; our messmates are
not our friends as yet.As soon as the thing which we are holding back, is finished, be it
good or bad, you will go to Rome and be careful you all times of
the day in restaurants and other public places to show, because you
can not, because of your love for the daughter, to suspect you can
draw.

"Giulio had big trouble, the wrath of the old comrades of his father
to calm down. There was nothing left him, than to be angry:" Do you
believe that I need your sword? "he said finally. "One would think
that I even have one! I wish a reasonably Council thee. "Ranuccio closed
the entire confrontation with the words:" You are young, thou hast
no wound, the insult was in public, now, a man has dishonored himself
among women despised. "Giulio told him that he is still going to be
rate would occasionally ask him that, and despite the pressure Ranuccios
that definitely insisted that he participated in raids on the Spanish
General may wish to take part - although, as he said, could gain
honor , quite apart from the doubloons - he returned alone to his house
back. There he had the evening before the day when Lord of Campireali
shot at him, and his Ranuccio Corporal receive, on the way back from
the area were of Velletri. Ranuccio had trouble, the small iron chest
to see where his master, the captain Branciforte, formerly the golden
chains and other jewelry included if it did not, immediately after
the expedition their proceeds out.
Hearing uproar all about
him, he thought that the rest of the Medes must have stayed behind in
the camp, except perhaps a few, but the fact was that their domestics,
finding the masters gone, had fallen to drinking in fine style and
were making a din to their hearts' content, the more so that they had
procured wine and dainties from the Assyrian camp. [9] But when it was
broad day and no one knocked at the palace gate except the guests of
last night's revel, and when Cyaxares heard that the camp was deserted
--the Medes gone, the cavalry gone--and when he went out and saw for
himself that it was so, then he fumed with indignation against Cyrus
and his own men, to think that they had gone off and left him in the
lurch. It is said that without more ado, savage and mad with anger as
he was, he ordered one of his staff to take his troopers and ride at
once to Cyrus and his men, and there deliver this message:

[10] "I should never have dreamed that Cyrus could have acted towards
me with such scant respect, or, if he could have thought of it, that
the Medes could have borne to desert me in this way. Luis more consoled
and encouraged, and it appeared he was going to be like another San
Eduardo, and that was like the queen Pepita Edita, his wife, and
under such terms and conditions of such a queen, a pair of virgin
wife, he Pepita appeared, if anything, more gracious, elegant and
poetic.

It was not, however, D. Luis everything safe and quiet it should be,
having resolved to imitate San Eduardo.

Still do not know what a criminal at that visit was going to do without
his father knew and was going to awaken from their nap and discover.

Two or three times got up from his chair and began walking in search of
her father, but then stopped and felt outraged that disclosure, the
girls thought a shame.

He could reveal his secrets, but reveal Pepita to get well with her
father was quite ugly. The ugliness and the comical and pitiful
of action is increased by noting that the fear of not being strong
enough to withstand what was to make him move. D. Luis shut it, and
did not reveal anything to his father.

It is more: not even felt the ease and security appropriate to
present to his father by having half of that mysterious event. I was
also so excited and out of it because of the passions which found the
disputed domain for your soul, that it was in the room, and jump or
fly as if you walked in and walked around three or four steps, although
it was large, so be afraid of pumpkins against the walls. Finally,
although the balcony was open, being summer, it seemed that there was
going to drown due to lack of air, the roof is hung over the
head, and that all I needed to breathe air and walk around space
without limits, and to lift the forehead and breathe their sighs
and their lofty thoughts, but do not have on the vast vault of
heaven. sting of this need, took his hat and his cane and went to
the street.

Once in the street, avoiding any known person and seeking solitude
is left to the field and he was so lush and most elusive of poplar
gardens and paths surrounding the town and make a heaven of its
surroundings within a radius of more than half a league
And as to what
we have won--you have seen it yourself--keep nothing back, and ask my
father how much I ought to send home for an offering to the gods, if I
wish to act in honour and according to the law, and ask the
magistrates how much is due to the commonwealth. And let them send
commissioners to watch all that we do and answer all that we ask. So,
sir," he ended, "you will get your baggage together, and take your
company with you as an escort. Fare you well.An opposite effect was the arrival of Count Celia and her friend,
the young Fabiana, in the deepest terror.

"Your concerns will be addressed have used us," said Celia to Fabiana.
"The Abbess is too weak, as that they should not have spoken. And now
our lives in the hands of the Count. Two Ways to stay us: take the
flight, but what will we live?" The greed of our fathers is the suspicion
of the crime that hovers over us, as excuse to use the bread for us
to refuse. Formerly, Tuscany just as Spain was a province, had
pursued the unfortunate Tuscan flee to France. But the Grand Duke, the
Cardinal wants off the Spanish yoke.
But
when he learns how many have fallen, and that all have been dispersed,
his fears will vanish, and he will recognise that he is not deserted
on this day of all days when his friends are destroying his foes. [21]
Can we deserve blame for doing him a service? And that not even
without his own consent? I am acting as I am, only after having gained
his leave to take you out; it is not as though you had come to me in
your own eagerness, and begged me to let you go, and so were here now;
he himself ordered you out, those of you who did not find it a
burthen. His character was nothing, especially not by the mania, a
good partner to be mitigated and reduced, as in the Don Juan of Molière.
He took care of the other people only if they prove its superiority
to them, use them or they wanted to show his hatred. Because of Don
Juan will never favor feelings of sympathy, of sweet dreams or
fantasies at a tender heart. He needs, above all joys, triumphs which
are noticed by others and not repudiation, he needs the list that the
cheeky Leporello in the eyes of the unfortunate Elvira winding.
The Roman Don Juan has been well protected from the childlike awkwardness
kept the key to his nature to give and to entrust to a poodle,
like that of Don Juan in Molière.

He has lived without a confidant and has nothing andres talked to him
as the promotion of his plans was useful. Nobody surprised him
in moments of real tenderness and delightful serenity of which one
of the Don Juan of Mozart forgives much. In short: the portrait, which
I will sit here, is repulsive. For choice, I would not have
this character retraced. I myself would be content to make it to study,
because it is closer than the dreadful strange. But travel companions,
whom I could not cut off, asked me a question. I had in 1823 the
good fortune to Italy together with amiable unforgettable people sehn.

And do you talk to him yourself, and
dilate on all the wonders we expect for our friends if things go well.
And when you have done this, come back again and tell me."

[26] So the chieftain took the Mede away to his own quarters, and
meanwhile the messenger from Persia presented himself equipped for the
journey, and Cyrus bade him tell the Persians all that had happened,
as it has been set out in this story, and then he gave him a letter to
Cyaxares. "I would like to read you the very words," he added, "so
that what you say yourself may agree with it, in case you have
questions asked you."

