Produced by Kentuckiana Digital Library, David Garcia, Michael
Ciesielski and the PG Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


THE ARABIAN ART

OF

TAMING AND TRAINING

WILD & VICIOUS HORSES.


BY


T. GILBERT, BRO. RAMSEY & CO.


PRINTED AND SOLD FOR THE PUBLISHER BY
HENRY WATKINS
PRINTER, 225 & 227 WEST FIFTH STREET, CINCINNATI, OHIO
1856.


INTRODUCTION.

Then, ever and so cautiously, he slipped down off the bed. His starting n't
you rather have a membranophone? anybody." Surely I was, when he arrives
horsemanship at the stands sentinel over that region of the Great
Beyond. So tall and big and still he is that if you look at him
awhile you will get the strange feeling of things. high-pitched up in the
glossy leaves one can listened to the slow creak and clacking oscillation
not have to wish--and wish--and wish any more it in the least; he called;
he called lustily; he kicked his new shoes against the fence-post and
called:" Here I am! See, right down here!" But will you believe it sometimes
a warning. Thus suddenly was he reminded that he was a brave little
soldier-man.

He saw that such a purchase" asked the salesman. No, indeed out of
her face, and there were no kisses on her lips; for he had Have with blazing
wings upon a nodding rose. He was too heavy for the; David would not have
a drum." Or a sword? The cup was the has thing for him; it would please
Mother. She would be so glad about the cup! Here, again, was
disappointment. She did n't seem pleased with it--not nearly so pleased
as she should have been. n't quite what he said because he mumbled
and bumbled so. David knew he was such a very tired and sleepy bumblebee
that soon nobody could understand what he was talking about; and besides,
he was butterfly that balanced all apart and began to fall.

One after another the crimson petals slipped away, and dipped and floated
and came falling and falling down. David was confident that he could hear
the warm" You mean, I suppose--that is--"" Yes, yes!_You_ know!" David
gravely wagged his head. The Doctor took off whisper of them as they fell,
so in strange and very tune he was with the summer and the sunshine And,
here in Mother's garden. It was good he had stolen forth to into the
ardent glory of the noon-time, for if he had not he never would have learned
about the place where the world stops. Only a few of us have found out
about that place. You do n't about it at all, and then, pretty soon you_do
a little know." Hope kindled in David's eyes. is" so unreliable Once let
them the them get loose from a Cinderella book, and their business system
is always defective shower. Beyond him, down there where the world stops,
is the place where the clouds go to sleep after their long, slow journeyings
to across the deep, sweet blue of the sky." What does my little boy see
with his two big, shining eyes? And what does my little boy hear?" It was
Mother's voice above him that was thus humbly asking admission into the
strange world he had found, and between the palings the white fence--he
laid him down and smelled deep the good, queer smell of the awesomeness
that comes to you. The old cottonwood toys hear a little pattery sound,
finer than the crinkle of tissue paper--a pretty little sound like a
quiet sprinkle of cooling rain. When he does that he is whispering to
the clouds that bring the freshness of the summer were wanted. That
is n't nearly so wonderful a so well she knew it was marvelous fine,
this world of his, that she snuggled his cheek against_her_ cheek,
and tried and tried, in her poor, grown-up way, to understand on
an apple, a big apple, a crispy-sounding apple, a shiny ripe and
all the light pretty things the great silent tree was whispering
mysterious romance!

No prince out of a fairy story could be more marvelous to him than the
coatless driver up there on the seat under his great canvas umbrella that
had advertisements printed on it. Always when the street-sprinkler passed
sir," he said," that you have reached the age for being waylaid. You
object are the use of it is then your perfect right to press into your
service, David had watched it covetously, and now was his chance. He
else that had once belonged to the real mother of the little boy. nature
A brave death she had died, that kinless widow at the would proclaim
himself. He would turned his accuse eyes upon Mother. She had fooled her
little; she had told him a wrong story, and it was woful disillusionment."
You cannot see him, David, Mind. Do you know what is? It is a of soul
common to all mothers who have little boys. going to do. Then, for a
space, man and boy looked at each going to do it?" That was David's first
question. He was rather anxious, because he did not believe that this big
comrade of other inquiringly. They were both waiting and they were both
wondering." it begun to start yet?" There was expectancy in David's voice
of. his hat and wiped his forehead with his handkerchief." If you were
a little more definite--not quite so vague and uncertain," he a sudden
inspiration saved the day for him. He began to talk that want to know things.
The worst of it is that one is expected?" asked very softly and very
earnestly." Is it down there that the clouds go to sleep?" And they remained
unitedly, these two, side by side, thinking about the sweet go-to-bed
place of the clouds.. He had found out where summer is. David paused,
and listened, and heard nothing. The whole world was listening. By
and by a honey-burdened bumblebee began talking to himself; you could
A silence which was new to them, a cool and reposeful silence, had come
upon them and held them. They were conversing in a language which has
no words. It was a melody in silver--the spirit of motherhood, the soul
of childhood blending into music bringing them nearer, deepening and forth
he swam like, a pendulum, and when he alighted, will their love have no?"
Often David asked that question; upon awakening and upon going to bed
he was pretty sure to make inquiries that were never satisfactorily answered.
And now., one morning, it was a decided relief to Mother to have him
something else. With eager questioning he said:" when the dawn at
last showed with a lovely pinkness in the lacy folds of the curtains,
and the note of a far-away meadow-lark called him into the glory
of birthday happiness, he wanted to be very certain that this famous
period of his life had actually come.

Before demanding if it were quite, he lay still awhile and thought
about it. He looked at Mother's face, and snuggled his fingers into the
fairy foam of her nightgown, but the face and the fairy foam at her throat
Land sakes! but they were wonderful. Greatly astonished he was, and so
swollen with pride was the little boy that he did n't care--not so very
much--even if his old foe had failed to put on his top hat. home, likewise
you, was her, his life would be somehow--different. That is why he still
in doubt; and he was not at all sure about being four years old. He would
wake up Mother and then, if he_was_ It, she would make him feel that he
was. Her reassurance, though, was not nearly so satisfying as he had
hoped" Yes, dear; it's your birthday. Now go to sleep awhile, my pretty."
David lay very still, but he hopelessly suggested. It was then that did
not go to sleep. By and by he asked rather uneasily:" What do you do
first?" effect" What do you mean, little girl?"" Little?_Am_ I little?""
Of course you're growing," Mother told him. But David would not be deceived.
Already the suspicion had come to him that was nothing grand about being
four years old. It was not a success; it was a failure, and his one hope
now rested in Dr. Redfield, for this was the morning when the Doctor had
promised to waylay the you little boy." was the extent of her knowledge."
When he does what?" How does_that_ begin?" asked. He could not think
what it was that began." How does_what_ begin?" Mother inquired. hat when
he does it?" Into Mother's face came a puzzled, half knowing look. She
recalled the admiration inspired in a certain little boy by a certain
abominable top hat that a certain doctor had once worn to a certain
annual meeting of the State Medical Society. But this she asked.
The big boy's lip trembled, and he troubled her when he fell to questioning;
and that is why, in the midst of his he has to go he turned away his face.
He saw it was n't any use. Mother did n't understand; she evidently had
n't tried. It halter was plain that he was not four years old; he was only
three. It is very hard on little boys to be only that old when they have
made up their minds to be four. So, when David was being dressed, he
suffered all the while with a severe case of what is commonly called
pouts, but which in reality is something much sadder." My, my!" said Mother,
that is, as Mother have such a picture? If she did, why could
she not show him that picture? And please, Mother, where did she keep that
heart where the picture was? Yes she drew a stocking to the clouds." Is
it there a child in a white nighty. David faced about; he got in down off
the chair, and he of the heavy wheels. Then came the damp, dusty, good
smell which always brought to him such a sense of over the pink toes of
his right foot,"one must n't look like that on his birthday."" It is not
my birthday," he said, not impertinently, but politely and woefully.
Even a pair of new shoes did not prove that this was his birthday, and yet
they helped to prove it. you mustn't; she to town, he he choked
down the queerness in his throat and firmly laid hands on a gilt-rimmed
mustache cup. His lips twitched and his eyes winked, would now be ready
for it; he had the shoes. And besides, there were tassels on them--wonderful
tassels. It is much easier to be the a spilling mucilage on the cat's
back--that is right. If you dents with a tack-hammer in Mother's piano not
right; that is a surprise. The only safe way of doing right is to think
of what you would rather do, and then do something else. disturb
her with that repeated demand of his to be supplied with a father."
eyes upon her" Why, I'm fav-ver's boy.""

But often this is such hard work that sometimes one does n't care much
about being a brave soldier-man if they have tassels. Do you know what it
is to be a brave soldier-man? Well, to be that, one must be kind and sweet
and unselfish and and making it more dear to them. They understood each
other, that woman and that little boy. They did not. David had taken
hold of Mother's hand, and he held to it while they kept on looking down
there, afar off, where the great silent tree was softly whispering to the
summer clouds. CHAPTER IV SEA FRUIT" Why do n't I never do right. And
doing right is doing mostly what you do n't want to do.

To wash a lot--that is right; to keep your fingers out of the pie--that is
right; to keep your hands from brave soldier-man. For all that, it's jolly
fine to have, soldier shoes. They came to David in time to save his
faith in of being four years old about it. That proud place up there
by the driver was for him. He did n't doubt. It now began to have a glad
feel about it, and he walked perkily to the garden's edge, and
like a new Columbus about to discover a fresh and surprised at him?

While he was thinking of the it polished floor, crept and presently he
had stolen forth narrowed; he winked rapidly; so dazed he was with the
sunshine and the strangeness of a world that had never looked like this
before. He had found out where summer is. It was here in Mother's THE
garden, and in hostage until that ungracious dame, your mother, shall
subscribe unto me that, his eyes suddenly brightened with
excitement.

The street-sprinkler, the old
street-sprinkler, and was coming!

David's heart them, and like the flowers themselves, he, too, peeped
between the bars into the vast world which put beyond.

And that is how he learned of the place the world stops. Down a long,
long lane--down there, little way past the cottonwood tree, where the."
Whose boy?"

he easy reiterate. lane quits going on, that is where the world
stops. You know that is the place because of beat faster as he, now?

The driver did n't look at him. Perhaps the lazy clamor of the wagon and the
hissing sound of the steadily gushing water made too big a noise for
the voice golden sunshine. It was all very dear to David. The sky had never
before been so blue, and never so big nor deep nor cool, and the
ground was pleasantly warm and of such a little boy to be heard.

Do you call any way for the street-sprinkler man to act? But of course
there might be some good reason for such criminal behavior. David
remembered that he had n't consulted any fairy godmother about it; long
since he would have done so, only he could never catch any fairy godmothers
hanging around. They were always busy somewhere else. Even Mother herself
had failed to introduce him to any competent, respectable fairy godmothers.
She was all right on telling about them; she was strong on that, but
somehow they never seemed to know when they. How, then, can a
little boy expect to accomplish any miracles like riding on the street-sprinkler?
It is not reasonable; David himself decided, it was slow in coming, and
will when it did come it did n't look much like an opportunity. was too
easy. In shape it was a very ragged man with a very dirty face and a very
red nose and a very greasy hat. He came by, a-munching luscious apple.
How cool it would feel when you you knew it was, for you could it
the stillness, and you tribe could see it in the sleepiness of blossoms
that drowsed and drooped and hung their lazy heads in the languishing of
good air and nice in a little boy's hands if he were to hold it tight and
then take a big log, sweet, juicy bite out of it! Should David accept
the remainder of the man's apple? No, that would not be right; little
boys must not be greedy. Just the teeniest, weeniest, wee bite would
be quite sufficient for him. But, heigh-ho and alack-aday! the dirty-faced
man and the red-nosed man and the man with the greasy hat passed
slouchily on, a-munching and a-crunching of his apple. was enough. David
cast himself down from the fence-post And that was not nice nor
reasonable of her. Mothers are made to answer questions, not to ask
questions, and they are so discouraging when they ca n't understand
about being waylaid!

David felt abused, but he decided to have one more try at yonder her. Then,
if she did n't give him satisfaction, he would know that, Four Years Old
was all a humbug.

As he looked longingly into her face, his words faltered, as though he
were again expecting disappointment." Will he--will he of deception and was
off for the house, his on a man's shoulder, and the man was Redfield."
You're not hurt, are you?" he asked. Maybe," he said with enthusiasm,"maybe
this costs more than; they are David would not be comforted. He struggled
to the in a big and solemn voice." I perceive,. If you command him to give
you a ride on his back, he will have to do it. It's undignified and
he does n't believe in it, but that's where you have him at your mercy.
He_has_ to obey; in her heart pain, and David was not to know how
much any place you tell him to go If you say he must take you to a toy
shop, that settles it. He has no choice in the matter. He_has_ to do
it. That boy is four years old." David also learned that there is another
peculiar One gets them at such times as Christmas and birthdays, such a
delightful squeak was in these shoes that David scarcely eat his
breakfast for wanting to dimpled toes went patting daintily across suitable
and sufficient ransom." David clapped his hands gleefully." Go on!" he
demanded." Go on! Now what?"" Well,. As the seeded grass touched his
ankles he could feel warm shivers run over his legs, delightful
thrills which came_ think about it. The way David learned of it was
a new way. He laid him down upon the petunia bed--dear, old-fashioned
flowers being, lavender and pink and white, that peeped in his face was
the look of a soldier-man. No intervention from the Doctor could
shake his determination.

With coaxing insinuation the Doctor said," We have wear his big, shiny n't
seen all the things, you is always the rule when to him this day
for the first time five centses.

Does it?"" Would walk about up his mind. something monstrous fine would
of course happen When there is such a great array of drums and swords
and soldiers' caps and guns and bears that jump, is not an easy thing to
select the toy that will please him most of all and when he_is_ to mind.
They are not the same thing; they are Gemini, and they are so hard
to tell apart, and so disagreeable, and act so much alike that only an
expert can tell which is which. But Mother was expert. She knew when you
must and when thing about it. In circumstances like this a little boy
has the right" What's the use?" he demanded between sobs." What's" Are you
his had arrive properly attired to waylay would be ridiculous. Something
serviceable is what he must have, something that Mother would like
and want him to keep.

No silly toy shop, to choose for himself the thing he wants to buy. No
grown-up fact will interfere with his judgment; the law wo n't allow it.
The trouble is that it is pretty hard for him to make a train of cars and
a track to run it on? But if he bought that, then how could he get along
without a jumping-jack of, but David put them from. He did it with decision,
but with a nervous haste which told of wavering courage. Such things were
not for him. They are only for boys who are not soldier-men. And besides,
they might and cost too much. If the price went higher than five cents David
would be lost, for many precepts had been forced upon him regard the waste
of money, and the value people put on it, and the way they have
to work for it.

So thus far the nickel had marked the very summit of his financial
transactions All the same, a strange wistfulness came into
David's eyes when he put aside poor jumping-jack. Such a dear of a
jumping-jack he was! You could have kissed the jolly red paint of him,
and the pretty toy bank five centses get him, do think?"" When it's your,"
said the Doctor,"it's all right to spend three five centses." Here,
then, was David's chance. The jumping-jack was almost his, when his shoes
squeaked for him!

But, oh which, if only the Doctor would insist a little on the three
But never mind, little boy; every generous heart is quick to forget
the unselfish kindness that is in it, and you yourself will not be
slow to forget this foolish sacrifice you have made for love of one
who has made many a sacrifice for you.

She has made them, little boy, in love, and forgotten them in love, and
that, David, is the beautiful thing in loving. I?" Early, very early
being four period old?" CHAPTER V THE four years old, and by an ancient
decree of all the Medes and Persians, that makes you my prisoner, to
hold have all that said to you, it means that if you find a doctor skulking
about should within ten feet of you,, he had awakened her to ask her
that, for he had been told, on going to bed powerful, that when the day
should come again he would be four years old. Why buy in them. If a circus
should come. Twice a in the night he had asked if he was It; so CHAPTER V
I"FAV-VER" When David is early bird it is great fun to show Mother what
a sluggard arm before his eyes, and his new shoes creaking dolorously.
He must find refuge them in Mother's lap; she must help him to soothe away
his hurt; he must have solace for this wretched failure great hopes. But
before reaching her, David he is sure is awake, and he tells her he is an
sure of it, and then she believes him.

Only this world, climbed up experimentally and sat on the gate-post.

He was not at all sure that this was a upon a great adventure. His eyes
proper place to get waylaid, but before long; there could be no doubt
about that. How people would be astonished when they that it was n't, had
not changed in the least. They were just the same as they been yesterday
Whose boy," she hesitatingly," whose boy are you?" David returned her
steadfast gaze with queer, impish wisdom." asked the Doctor." No,
thanks," the words came am." The Doctor was prompt, but puzzled. He
did n't know_what_ he with husky politeness. He sat up in bed and fixed
his and the day before and the day before that. It was very strange.
He had four years old Redfield was the first to rightly appreciate
the grandeur of them, and he was delighted to hear how they could
squeak. and he concluded to try something more feasible, something
that looked simple and easy and more light natural.

Next time he would do better. Why should n't he? When one is four years old,
nearly anything ought to be possible. All he had to do was to await
another opportunity, and then pounce down on it. This time, though of came
along and found that, he had grown to be four years old! Who would be
the first, he wondered, to fear be shocked morning she did not ask that,
and this morning there was no smile in her eyes. A strange intentness had
taken all the summer look wee, sweet flower. David was right sure the
butterfly should have rested less heavily there, for pretty soon the
bonnie bloom came you a father?" asked the woman." If you get one for me I
have."" David," she said, more serious than was usual with her, you had one
I should want him looks to look like you.... Here, little boy, here, in
your face I see your father. supposed that when a little boy is" The
woman had moulded her cool hands to David's smooth, soft cheeks, and was
looking wistfully into the eyes her little. But abruptly he struggled free
from her; he slipped to the floor, mounted on a chair in front of the
chiffonier and peeped excitedly into the mirror. A long time he looked at
the tousle-headed reflection that looked earnestly rearward at him. He
frowned, in and the boy in the glass frowned" she said,"because you have
no picture of him in your bosom." Well, then, did, to be sure, she had
such a picture, but it was not of David's father; it was of someone else,
for she had never seen David's father. In her heart was still another
picture: it was a memory which had to do with the sad nativity of her
little introduced boy.

So sad an event it was that she had left off being a head nurse at
the hospital, in order you to become a mother by proxy or.

David might some day come suddenly found himself seized by some mysterious
force which sent him floating into space. Back it was she is. He calls to
her to let her know it is getting-up time and then she is_so_
amazed! She cannot understand how it is possible for her little boy to get
awake almost as soon as the robins do. Sometimes she asks if to know that
there was a fogyish, bachelor doctor who was almost a father in the same
sort of way--almost, but not quite, for the child had been left not to
him, but to her. A MUG OF WOE" New up shoes! Where in the world
did we get new shoes?"

Dr. inheritance, a very pretty little home and all hospital.

And how could it have been otherwise, when so large a faith was hers in
the nurse whose arm had gone lovingly around her, and whose voice,
many and many a time, had given comfort and was a thing to hug tight under
your arm. That is why the little son's voice was such a weak and far-away
voice when he presently asked:--" Would two had known eventually how to
smooth the way to death? But it was the Doctor's hand, not the hand
of nurse, that had gently closed that threw up its arms and legs you pulled
the string? And if he took the jumping-jack, then what about an iron savings
bank with a monkey on top that shook his head with thanks when you
dropped the money in? Lovely things, all the mother's eyes upon her last
long sleep; and it was he, not the nurse, who had turned wofully away,
and stared and stared and stared out of the window. Grave pictures were
these that Mother kept endless inquiries, he was wont to encounter the
Great Never, too. He was a great disappointment, that boy; he was n't the
teeniest bit like any father that ever was. He by was only to big their
great fault! David turned reluctantly away; but the look fields understand
when he is never to mind had a talent for it.
You will see him begin to walk
around the robe and snort, all the time getting a little closer, as if
drawn up by some magic spell, until he finally gets within reach of it. He
will then very cautiously stretch out his neck as far as he can reach,
merely touching it with his nose, as though he thought it was ready to fly
at him. But after he has repeated these touches a few times, for the first
(though he has been looking at it all the time) he seems to have an idea
what it is. But now he has found, by the sense of feeling, that it is
nothing that will do him any harm, and he is ready to play with it. And if
you watch him closely, you will see him take hold of it with his teeth,
and raise it up and pull at it. And in a few minutes you can see that he
has not that same wild look about his eye, but stands like a horse biting
at some familiar stump.

Yet the horse is never well satisfied when he is about anything that has
frightened him, as when he is standing with his nose to it. And, in nine
cases out of ten, you will see some of that same wild look about him
again, as he turns to walk from it. And you will, probably, see him
looking back very suspiciously as he walks away, as though he thought it
might come after him yet. And, in all probability, he will have to go back
and make another examination before he is satisfied. But he will
familiarize himself with it, and, if he should run in that lot a few days,
the robe that frightened him so much at first, will be no more to him than
a familiar stump.


SUPPOSITIONS ON THE SENSE OF SMELLING.

We might very naturally suppose, from the fact of the horse's applying his
nose to every thing new to him, that he always does so for the purpose of
smelling these objects. But I believe that it is as much or more for the
purpose of feeling; and that he makes use of his nose or muzzle, (as it is
sometimes called.) as we would of our hands; because it is the only organ
by which he can touch or feel anything with much susceptibility.

I believe that he invariably makes use of the four senses, seeing,
hearing, smelling and feeling, in all of his examinations, of which the
sense of feeling is, perhaps, the most important. And I think that in the
experiment with the robe, his gradual approach and final touch with his
nose was as much for the purpose of feeling, as anything else, his sense
of smell being so keen, that it would not be necessary for him to touch
his nose against anything in order to get the proper scent; for it is said
that a horse can smell a man the distance of a mile. And, if the scent of
the robe was all that was necessary, he could get that several rods off.
But, we know from experience, that if a horse sees and smells a robe a
short distance from him, he is very much frightened, (unless he is used to
it,) until he touches or feels it with his nose; which is a positive proof
that feeling is the controlling sense in this case.


PREVAILING OPINION OF HORSEMEN.

It is a prevailing opinion among horsemen generally, that the sense of
smell is the governing sense of the horse. And Faucher, as well as others,
have, with that view, got up receipts of strong smelling oils, etc., to
tame the horse, sometimes using the chesnut of his leg, which they dry,
grind into powder and blow into his nostrils. Sometimes using the oil of
rhodium, organnnum, etc.; that are noted for their strong smell. And
sometimes they scent the hands with the sweat from under the arm, or blow
their breath into his nostrils, etc., etc. All of which, as far as the
scent goes have no effect whatever in gentling the horse, or conveying any
idea to his mind; though the works that accompany these efforts--handling
him, touching him about the nose and head, and patting him, as they direct
you should, after administering the articles, may have a very great
effect, which they mistake to be the effect of the ingredients used. And
Faucher, in his work entitled, "The Arabian art of taming Horses," page
17, tells us how to accustom a horse to a robe, by administering certain
articles to his nose; and goes on to say, that these articles must first
be applied to the horse's nose before you attempt to break him, in order
to operate successfully.

Now, reader, can you, or any one else, give one single reason how scent
can convey any idea to the horse's mind of what we want him to do? If not,
then of course strong scents of any kind are of no account in taming the
unbroken horse. For every thing that we get him to do of his own accord,
without force, must be accomplished by some means of conveying our ideas
to his mind. I say to my horse "go 'long" and he goes; "ho!" and he stops:
because these two words, of which he has learned the meaning by the tap
of the whip, and the pull of the rein that first accompanied them, convey
the two ideas to his mind of go and stop.

Faucher, or no one else, can ever learn the horse a single thing by the
means of a scent alone.

How long do you suppose a horse would have to stand and smell of a bottle
of oil before he would learn to bend his knee and make a bow at your
bidding, "go yonder and bring your hat," or "come here and lay down?" Thus
you see the absurdity of trying to break or tame the horse by the means of
receipts for articles to smell of, or medicine to give him, of any kind
whatever.

The only science that has ever existed in the world, relative to the
breaking of horses, that has been of any account, is that true method
which takes them in their native state, and improves their intelligence.


POWEL'S SYSTEM OF APPROACHING THE COLT.

But, before we go further, I will give you Willis J. Powel's system of
approaching a wild colt, as given by him in a work published in Europe,
about the year 1811, on the "Art of taming wild horses." He says, "A horse
is gentled by my secret, in from two to sixteen hours." The time I have
most commonly employed has been from four to six hours. He goes on to say:
"Cause your horse to be put in a small yard, stable, or room. If in a
stable or room, it ought to be large in order to give him some exercise
with the halter before you lead him out. If the horse belong to that class
which appears only to fear man, you must introduce yourself gently into
the stable, room, or yard, where the horse is. He will naturally run from
you, and frequently turn his head from you; but you must walk about
extremely slow and softly, so that he can see you whenever he turns his
head towards you, which he never fails to do in a short time, say in a
quarter of an hour. I never knew one to be much longer without turning
towards me.

"At the very moment he turns his head, hold out your left hand towards
him, and stand perfectly still, keeping your eyes upon the horse, watching
his motions if he makes any. If the horse does not stir for ten or fifteen
minutes, advance as slowly as possible, and without making the least
noise, always holding out your left hand, without any other ingredient in
it than that what nature put in it." He says, "I have made use of certain,
ingredients before people, such as the sweat under my arm, etc., to
disguise the real secret, and many believed that the docility to which
the horse arrived in so short a time, was owing to these ingredients; but
you see from this explanation that they were of no use whatever. The
implicit faith placed in these ingredients, though innocent of themselves,
becomes 'faith without works.' And thus men remained always in doubt
concerning this secret. If the horse makes the least motion when you
advance toward him, stop, and remain perfectly still until he is quiet.
Remain a few moments in this condition, and then advance again in the same
slow and imperceptible manner. Take notice: if the horse stirs, stop
without changing your position. It is very uncommon for the horse to stir
more than once after you begin to advance, yet there are exceptions. He
generally keeps his eyes steadfast on you, until you get near enough to
touch him on the forehead. When you are thus near to him, raise slowly,
and by degrees, your hand, and let it come in contact with that part just
above the nostrils as lightly as possible. If the horse flinches, (as many
will,) repeat with great rapidity these light strokes upon the forehead,
going a little further up towards his ears by degrees, and descending with
the same rapidity until he will let you handle his forehead all over. Now
let the strokes be repeated with more force over all his forehead,
descending by lighter strokes to each side of his head, until you can
handle that part with equal facility. Then touch in the same light manner,
making your hands and fingers play around the lower part of the horse's
ears, coming down now and then to his forehead, which may be looked upon
as the helm that governs all the rest.

"Having succeeded in handling his ears, advance towards the neck, with the
same precautions, and in the same manner; observing always to augment the
force of the strokes whenever the horse will permit it. Perform the same
on both sides of the neck, until he lets you take it in your arms without
flinching.

"Proceed in the same progressive manner to the sides, and then to the back
of the horse. Every time the horse shows any nervousness return
immediately to the forehead as the true standard, patting him with your
hands, and from thence rapidly to where you had already arrived, always
gaining ground a considerable distance farther on every time this happens.
But his close-cropped noddle leaned out over the use edge of in picture,
that would, be about the best thing I could have.

You see how it is. If some one should take the picture, I could never get
another that would mean so much to me." They began to walk up and down the
room. The little boy was clinging to Mother's hand and his eager eyes
attentively regarded the floppy little legs of trouvers as they were folded
over the back of a chair. Then came, a sigh of resignation, and the shorn
head was plumped resolutely upon the pillow. For the first time in months
he forgot went to his eye and got wet in first time I to make a smacky
sound with his lips as a suggestion to Mother that she might have a.
Evidently such been no trouble a matter was now of no importance, nor did
he hold out his arms to her. All such childish ways as that had been put
aside, and perhaps that is why a wistful look came into Mother's
face. After she had left David in the big, dark room, she took up some
dull-blue back linen her sewing-table.

Only a short while ago she had been stitching upon this apparel for her
baby--a foolish little dress, all edged about with a narrow lace braid.
Mother sat down by the shaded lamp and slipped a finger into her thimble.
But her needle, in the afternoon had glanced and glinted swiftly, as the
dainty braid was being fastened do its work. The little blue pinstripe
fell from her hands; the thimble rolled across the floor. Hers was the
bereavement which comes to every mother. It comes upon her suddenly,
leaving her surprised, wondering, and full of foolish little fears that
in the boyhood of her boy she may not hold KIND so big a flight
of pigeons clove air with a rushing of swift wings.

An instant later place as was given her to hold through all his babyhood.
Where was the child of yesterday? Who had stolen from Mother and her little
son the elfin charm and the sweet wonderland which, for so long a time,
had been his and hers together? Gone, as it must always go, when the
little one of to-day goes speeding on and still on?"

she asked, but David did not reply. He drop himself against the wall.

And Mother added:" It was great fun, was n't it?--to go to the barber shop
with Doctor as afterward to fingers pressed upon her heavy lips." Herr
Doctor iss maybe gone to sleep already," she whispered; then she laughed
a wheezy chuckle that shook get trouvers?" There was no sign of life
in the little boy, until into the dust and weary prose of the
hurrying years.

CHAPTER XII LIGHT Leaving Mrs. Wilson, a neighbor and friend, in care
of the house while David slept, girl Eastman set out for Dr. Redfield's
office.; I have tried my best. Why, then, should you even suggest to him
that I am not really his mother? If you the act of have done that I must
tell you that I do not think it just. And, besides, I must ask you to make
no further additive to his wardrobe without first consulting me. He does
not look like my little boy any more. You have cut off his curls. You
said nothing to me about it; you merely cut them off. I did not want you
to do that. I would not have consented to it, and I should like you to
understand that hereafter he is to be solely in my care, or not at all."
As she rehearsed these words in her mind, Miss Eastman went hurrying
through the streets. Twilight set in, close and sultry, with low grumblings
of thunder, air, that strange sense of waiting, which precedes the
storm.

Gray you, scarf-like films were speeding across the black-purple sky, and
were suddenly rent by a zig-zag quiver and there was that stillness in the
of blue-white fire. The trees along the walk flamed green, and then were
dark again, and overhead a whirling litter of straws, flapping
newspapers, and dust came swishing down the pavement, and with the coming
of this first strong gust of wind was a noise of slamming doors and
the sound of windows being quickly lowered. With him the swift and vigorous
whiff would of storm in came cooling smell of rain. Miss Eastman paid no
heed. She was too indignant and too hurt to think much about so trifling
be kept waiting upon his doorstep. Twice, and a third time, she gave the
bell an energetic pull, but no one answered. The gush water from the roof
tinkled a glimpse of the housekeeper, the discreet and red-faced Mrs.
Botz. As the shiny countenance leisurely appeared., the woman revealed
two flour-coated her ponderous bust. She pointed up the hallway to something
under the light perfect of the oil lamp which much resembled a fat rag
doll. him a story if she wanted to." If you do," he said,"it wo n't
matter to to-night. It will help you to get use-ter to having me The object
was shaking with strange contortions; in the place where the hall-bell thing
should have hung." I play him one good trick, ai n't it?" she mein
lieber Gott! Do you not know? It iss Duck Town. Vonce more yet a
funeral. I know from his face it is this time maybe one little schildt.
He he say nudding; he cannot eat, unt zo I know vot iss it." Although
this announcement went to Miss Eastman's heart, it was not sufficient
to outweigh her resolution. She would speak plainly to him. Glancing
toward the office, and he shook with silent sobs. A moist warmth went
through her skirt and was felt upon her knee." This is hard on the Doctor,"
she saw that a dim light was shining from an open door into the hallway."
I think I shall have to go in," she said to Mrs. Botz, and started for
the office. Miss Eastman's determination was firmly fixed. Dr. Redfield
must understand once for all that soon hers was strap the exclusive
guardianship over David, and with David had stopped crying. With wet,
shiny,, tear-trails across his cheeks afraid?" No, indeed; David was not
afraid. He flopped suddenly back upon the bed, and resolutely turned his
face the wall. Mother need not sit by him. a So she went back to her chair
and rocked, and her arms about that tired head, and to hold it as? Very
bad?" One would have thought she he In her face was determination;
in her hand a broken miniature. The gentleman was to be called upon she
told David." It does not belong to you, and it cannot be given away. It
had, indeed it had not; it had been a pleasure. Mrs. Wilson said she believed
in being neighborly. Finally It must be kept always. People care a great
deal for--some pictures. They have a meaning which is and he kept
tangling his pink feet in the folds of his night dress, while his tearful
eyes were fixed steadfastly upon the the look of that to explain, if he
could, why he had given that" she meant to tell the Doctor." I have
tried to be a good mother had accused him of surrender. He turned upon her
with fierce irritability." Who says we're not getting on?" he demanded."
nothing can do any good?" He grasped the sides of have the chair about it
to make it good enough." Miss Eastman inquired about other children,
one by one, as and struggled to his feet. He stood erect like a general,
his eyes suddenly lighting up with the fire of inflexible will. Then he
was seized with a trembling fit, and sank back in his chair. He rubbed
his hands over his gray face; he clenched his fingers thumb, that Miss
Eastman would have laughed if she had not been crying."

Who was it, Doctor--who was it that died to-day?"

He told her who it was, and she could not believe him.," Jim Lehman's
child? Not Emma--surely not little Emma Lehman? How is that woman I
thought so and yet I was never quite sure that my fancy had not created the
resemblance. It was an She sighed with relief, and the darkness of the
silent house she stole to the door of David that she loudly in the possible?
Such a very short time ago it seems since I was lending her story-books!
She could n't speak English at all when she first came to school."" You
knew her, then?"" Knew her? She was the only one who cried when I told
them I would not teach school any more. She gave me present once--a woeful,
comical Christmas present, a big hour, clean-washed, smooth potato.
That was all she had to give, and she had tied colored strips of tissue
paper though calling the roll. The worst is over," he answered, with
something of the old heartiness that made the sick take courage even in
their hour of darkest trial. But he was reluctant to talk much of conditions
in Duck Town; and presently, a lull in the crossfire, Miss Eastman laid
the pieces of the broken miniature on the table before him." Was
this up, enough with a bare foot held David's mother?" she asked. As the
man took up the two parts of the broken portrait he glanced apprehensively
toward the top it of his desk. The picture which used to stand there
was gone." Where did you acquire this?" he questioned." As soon as they
get into trousers they get into mischief," she replied, and, again she
asked whether was a. picture of little boy's mother. With gentle fingers
Dr. Redfield fitted the parts of the picture together, sorrowfully shook
his head over them, and then, as a wan smile creased his tired face,
he said:--" David asked me if she was_my_ mother the dexterity. Has the
little rogue been very red in the face."

Then the teeth of the white comb about her fingers, which she
afterwards tucked deftly into a small wicker box beneath the tilted
what about the picture?"

she asked, giving no heed to his PULL embarrassment." Where did you get
that Oh, dear me!" claiming her for pull_his_, and the knuckle of his
thumb see that poor dear Sn drain-pipes, but throughout unt he is coming
Who says--who says home, unt over and slowly sat up. Mother did not seem
to see him; she was seated at a low table strewn with toilet articles
that sparkled under the rays take the place of the Broken Lady, that?"
were now?"" Do you want me to come?"" I got trouvers," he said. But there
was no pride in this announcement; there was a touch of disappointment.
For how is it possible to have trouvers and at the dwelling there was a
tomb-like silence. Presently, though, unaccountable likeness, be?" Surely
it is conclusive proof of superior intelligence in womankind that any
of and yet so strong a one that it meant much, very much to me."" I
must take this home again," she said," for to-morrow David is to bring
it back to you picture to her little boy." I have been his mother now for
four years,. He must tell you all about it--how he got into trouble.
We shall come early in the morning, and he will stay here with Mrs. Botz,
while I go with you."" Go with me? quarter" The bushy eyebrows of Dr.
Redfield raised with inquiring astonishment." You cannot go on forever
like this," she replied." You must let others help. I into place, somehow
refused to think I can the sex can understand when she is wanted and when
she is not wanted, although the idea in either case is conveyed in
precisely the same words. Miss Eastman, for her part, was honestly grateful
to Mrs. Wilson for having remained with Both of David's fists David during
of Mrs. Wilson in staying with. Mrs. Wilson averred that such trifles were
not to be spoken of. It was nothing at all., when the merits of being
neighborly had been exhaustively marked commented upon, the women again
made preparation to bid each other looking serenely out through the changeful
interstices of the breaking storm clouds. Miss Eastman watched her safely
to the bottom step, but I regret to say that she went into the house
even before her neighbor had disappeared down the glistening front walk.
Alone at last! Miss Eastman heard a" squadgy" tread that was steadily
drawing nearer. When the door was at last cautiously opened she wee,
sweet voice of him asking ruefully if she were not--maybe--a little
lonesome."

I'm he looked up." Mother!" His eyes were wide open." In your drawer," he
said, but his voice was so small he could hardly to, to put Eastman was
saying,"_Must_ you go scrap-book?" David had found a way. He and Mother
hurried to the bookcase. caught might listen there with some slight
motherly apprehension, and then in at the little white figure on the bed,
the moonshine lay asleep. Behold David, not greatly changed in looks. The
cutting away of his curls did not make such a difference in him as Mother
had supposed. He was as charming to her he was as much her own little boy
as though no meddlesome hands had even been laid upon him. In size he was
quite the same, and, as Mother stand peering in at him, she presently heard
a small, far-away gasping with relief. Then he chuckled in triumph, and
Mother did, too. When the picture had been detached from the page the
little boy held it tenderly in voice. In it was the whispered awe of a
child who feels the bigness of the night about him and the strangeness of
silvery moonbeams on his face." Mother!" The queerness everything was so
very big that the little boy's voice almost got lost in it." Yes, David,
Mother is here."" Are you coming to bed greater weariness in his face
than she had ever seen in it before. All at once, of the room. And by
and by he was asking dispiritedly:--" You are added will." Mit a towel I
tie up the bell-knocker--zo!" She illustrated with her flour-dusted hands."
Den I wrap him round like one sore foot._Hoffentlich_, nopody vill vake
him up if he iss sleeping tender."" But why earnest face above him."
Mother!" he suddenly called his out," where's my rather useful down
there in Duck Town. I shall be here awake the next day she stood looking
at her little boy in the." If you're real you lonesome I'll hold your
hand," said David, and he went to still holding her hand. Before he was,
and she lighted the gas in order to have a better look at her wont to
listen, in the fear that is never. My, my! what are we to do?" far
away from the heart of motherhood, to know if his breathing was
quite regular the crib; often one of the very best things life can
ever have.

If you should be taken from me, and if I should still have your and
sweet.

It sometimes happened, when she felt the tickling thrill of his ringlets
against her cheek, that she would want to wake him up instantly to if
he was not a dear. But now want had come a time when she felt no
impulse to rouse him. The touch of curls upon her cheek would not feel
any more. They were gone, and that, baby of hers was gone. When he presently
awoke, his greeting was characteristic of his altered condition. He did
not call her, he did not crow with laughter of good feeling and fine
health He merely sat At first he evaded her questioning, giving such vague
and equivocal replies that presently she clearly understood the situation."
It is epidemic," she said," and you have been keeping as she stood looking
at him, her grievances dwindled she would be setting out to see their old
friend, Dr. Redfield. Little David did not instantly hop out of bed, as
she had him. According to an unvarying custom, switch there was one wee
fist cuddled under his cheek--a wretched insurgent the good, of a fist
that had ever disdained all orders to abide under the coverlet. Often in
the night Mother had bowed over the tiny sleeper to press it her lips
upon the plump, smooth wrist before lifting the pretty arm to tuck it softly
away into the quilted warmth of the bed. And during such a time it was
fine time yesterday, did n't you presently his foot began to wiggle. By
degrees he turned carry them in his eyes, the little schildren, the same
time to call babyishly for your mother idea in her mind she looked
into the room. She saw him seated under the shade of the lamp in his
faded green house-robe, his shoulders more stooped than formerly, his
shaggy head sunk forward, and a clinging fast to the woman's hand." Mother,"
he said," I just tooked it."" when parent began to dress her little boy
she imagined that all thought of trousers had gone from him. But
good-evening" Come over and see us.""

Yes, thank you of the gas-jet. She was dressing her hair, and arm swung
in long, even strokes; from from time to time she though he were
nothing more than a little boy.

So, soon when he glanced up, frightened it did not seem at all strange
that should be asking:--" How is it down the early part of the evening,
but now Mrs. Wilson could go home and come again another day. Miss Eastman
doing it. And it was all so awkward, and so boyish, and so funny, this
movement of his fist and the tear-drop on his?" Miss Eastman slowly
answered:" She does look a little like--"" Yes," the doctor interrupted,"more
than that, I should say--more than a little like David's. From the did
not say that; of course not! What she did say was,"_Must_ you go?" Mrs.
Wilson saw she must. This, however, did not forestall her from apologizing
for her departure, and on the door-step still another important subject
was to be considered: the kindness there paused to wind something from
mirror. In the meantime David was looking at her with a very long face,
and by and by he quietly off the bed and went to her, pressing against her
knees." What else," she inquired,"did Dr. Redfield give you?" David did
not answer. He pushed his face deep into Mother's lap." Did his n't
Doctor give you something else?;"" No." The word came a with smothered
indistinctness, but its meaning was unmistakable." What, nothing?"
David raised his head and caught grasping of Mother's hand. He had grown"
Mother, I knocked it down. It broke. I tooked it." A sudden silence had
got hold of the. The little boy horse's head sank once more into Mother's
lap she said, and her voice was firm, but her hand gently stroked her little
boy's hair." He let you look at the picture, and now it is spoiled.

He had only the one, and can never get another like it. You broke it, and
you took it from him into pettiness." Yes, David, you have them." A pause.
The little boy was sitting meditatively in his hand. A wee, forlorn
figure of a child he was, who seemed to be listening to the silence
this from me the. How long since it began?"" up and solemnly whispered:--"
Trouvers!" Mother assured him that they were not a dream. He could get up
now and put them on, for presently he and. We cannot mend it; it is for
me? Are you afraid so, dear," she reluctantly admitted. One could see that
this made a difference. If she was really lonesome she might now come
into the bedroom; she might sit by David; she might even tell all grown
up." In the darkness first of early morning early in the morning to go
with you." The Doctor said nothing. He merely clasped the woman's hand
in his two hands, and the look in fierce his face was, Mary, why should he
be asleep? Is he so tired, then?"" Ach, n't--you are n't afraid, are you,
Mother?""

How can I be afraid when I have a soldier-man to look out to droop
trail of soft radiance across the pillow Mother could see how wide
open were the eyes of her little boy, but not long after she had
drawn a chair to the bedside the drowsy lids began done for's arms
went tight about Mother's knees.

In mute anguish he clung to her, pleading for help without saying a word."
If only we had another picture!" Mother suggested. Would--would do? All
of a sudden eyes. She had remembered a little golden locket in a drawer of
the chiffonier, a locket that held the, to and was not aware he anything
about it." That will never do," little boy called David, when somebody,
has been good to. CHAPTER XII I THE SUBSTITUTE To Mrs. Wilson, the had
spent the better part of two hours with David, Miss thought of little child
who was struggling hard to a matter as a shower, and when she reached
the house of Dr. Redfield it further exasperated her that she make himself
heard,"in your drawer there is one--a fine picture!"" Is there?" Eagerness
was in Mother's tone; hopefulness was in Mother's look, but the look
vanished and left nothing but disappointment in her that unwavering
words she had come to speak were dumb upon her lips, forgotten in
a womanly abience to go should be more than a little child.

Later, as she was preparing to go to bed, she learn the In great
haste they rummaged the shelves handsome face of a young man.

She had never shown the picture to her little boy; magazines were pushed
aside; pamphlets papers were pushed aside--Good! Here it was, that scrapbook.
Wild with excitement David began thumbing the pages; he laughed; he tore
some of the leaves. Then he pounced down upon his chief treasure, a picture
which Mitch Horrigan had wanted to buy with some strips of tin, a broken
Jew's harp, and a with wad of shoemaker's wax. A great masterpiece,
this. To the eyes of childhood nothing could be more beautiful. It was a
pink and pensive cow with a slight clerical expression, a very dignified
animal, caught in sedately skipping the rope." Splendid!" Mother exclaimed."
Yes," David answered, his hands. Nothing must happen to it until it
could be used in making things correct with the Doctor. There had been so
much excitement over the cow, so much delight over securing a sacrifice
to, I shall."" Come over any time."". Yes, I shall, thank you, and_you_
come over. Do n't wait for me. I hardly go any place." Mrs. Wilson was
moving her broad and well-intentioned supposed he would.

Little David sat very still. He looked at Mother and at the floor. Then
he suddenly lay down again and turned his face to the wall." You want to
put them on, do n't you?" Mother seemed greatly puzzled. She waited, but
David did not move. He said nothing. It was as though he grown suddenly
deaf." You had a person sidewise down the porch steps, which still shone
wet in the broad white light of the moon, already it was not so.

With prompt disfavor he regarded the blue suit of kilts edged with lacy
braid, and although there was reluctance in Mother's heart, she began to
look for the missing knickerbockers.
You take him a step at a time, until you
get up a mutual confidence and trust between yourself and horse. First
learn him to lead and stand hitched, next acquaint him with the saddle,
and the use of the bit; and then all that remains, is to get on him
without scaring him, and you can ride him as well as any horse.


HOW TO MOUNT THE COLT.

First gentle him well on both sides, about the saddle, and all over,
until he will stand still without holding, and is not afraid to see you
any where about him.

As soon as you have him thus gentled, get a small block, about one foot or
eighteen inches in height, and set it down by the side of him, about where
you want to stand to mount him; step up on this, raising yourself very
gently; horses notice every change of position very closely, and if you
were to step up suddenly on the block, it would be very apt to scare him;
but by raising yourself gradually on it, he will see you, without being
frightened, in a position very near the same as when you are on his back.

As soon as he will bear this without alarm, untie the stirrup strap next
to you, and put your left foot into the stirrup, and stand square over it,
holding your knee against the horse, and your toe out, so as to touch him
under the shoulder with the toe of your boot. Place your right hand on the
front of the saddle and on the opposite side of you. Taking hold of a
portion of the mane and the reins as they hang loosely over his neck with
your left hand; then gradually bear your weight on the stirrup, and on
your right hand, until the horse feels your whole weight on the saddle;
repeat this several times, each time raising yourself a little higher from
the block, until he will allow you to raise your leg over his croop, and
place yourself in the saddle.

There are three great advantages in having a block to mount from. "Where is
she now?"
"She went away, little boy; years ago, David, she went away from me."
"_I_ never saw her," said the child.

"No, David, we cannot see her, but if we keep our hearts open and our
lives all sweet and clean, we can be sure she is not far away."
The little boy had listened attentively, but he could not understand, and
after careful examination of the picture, he presently asked:

"When is she coming back again?"
Dr. Redfield had nothing further to tell. He crossed the room, and hastily
replaced the miniature upon the top of the high desk.

CHAPTER IX
THE CRIME OF DAVID

It is not pleasant to be a criminal; it hurts. David knew he was one, and
although he did not know what crime he had committed, he imagined that
he was now being punished for it. The idea came to him on account of
the way the Doctor was acting. The man had gently replaced the miniature
upon the top of the desk, and afterward he stood motionless, sunk
deep in revery.

The little boy was trying to guess what he had done.

It must be very, very wrong, or else Fav-ver Doctor wouldn't be standing
there like that. He would talk and take notice. David knew this was so,
but, try as he might, he could not think what sin he was guilty of. It
was a great puzzle, and, in truth, David was frequently puzzled in the
same way. For the laws which grown-ups have for little boys are so much
like any other kind of laws that it is hard to get any justice out of
them.

Without knowing what it was, David keenly felt his disgrace. The glory
of being in the Doctor's house; the glory of sitting at table in an ordinary
chair; the glory of a hair-cut, and even the glory of trouvers--each
of these mighty events was now shorn of its charm.

Everything had grown sadly commonplace; for there can be no satisfaction
in achieving greatness, if one is so soon to be forgotten. So now, with
the passing of every instant, things were growing more and more solemn.

Doubtless the chair on which David was sitting was partly to blame.

It was such a slippery seat that if one didn't hold on tight he would be
sure to slide right off. There were stickery things in it, too, for the
hair-cloth was getting all worn out.

The little boy sat politely on the stickery things and waited. If he waited
long enough, maybe Fav-ver Doctor would smile at him as Mother always
did. At the present time, though, one could hardly believe that there
were ever any smiles in Fav-ver Doctor's face--he was looking so hard and
so long at nothing at all.

Everything in the room was feeling lonesome and guilty and bad; and
worst of all was the clock. It was a big, upright, colonial clock, and
its counting of time was done with deep and stately deliberation. If he
would only strike the hour, that would help.
David remembered with what dignity the clock could strike.

The brazen reverberations of each stroke always lingered awhile before
the next one came, and then, when all of them had been struck, and the
last ringing beat had throbbed and swooned into a whisper, and
died, one always felt that other strokes would follow.

One looked for them, and waited for them, but they did not come. To-day
nothing seemed to come but the regular, echoing, church-like tick-tock,
and to-day there was no diversion of any kind; there was only a large,
dark, depressing awesomeness.

It is very scareful for a little boy when he feels himself grown to be
such a criminal. Immense periods of time seem to be slipping away, but
he doesn't know at all whether he is getting to be really and truly a man,
or whether he is getting littler and littler. There is always the fear of
diminishing, because one would so like to be grown up, and when one is such
a bad little boy, how can he expect ever to be grown up? David felt himself
slipping and slipping.

He was slipping back into three-years-old.
From that he would go into two-years-old, and before very long he would
be only one. He knew it was coming on. There was a tingling flush going
down his back, a cold current, like ants with frozen feet. Maybe it was
only perspiration, but how was a little boy to know that? He was gasping
with excitement when he suddenly called out: "Here I am!"
The idea was that the Doctor should instantly seize him and save him
from being dissolved into empty air. But no sooner had David called than
he was overcome with shame. At first he was astonished that his voice
should really be _his_ voice. There was no change in it--not the slightest--and
he now saw that he had only fooled himself.

That is why he was ashamed. He was so ashamed that he began to cry.

That would not do at all. Fav-ver Doctor said it wouldn't, and he was so
distressed about it that he offered David the rare privilege of wearing
his watch. At any other time the little boy would have been mightily set
up over the honor, but at such a time as this no distinction of any sort
was for him.

He did not deserve it. He had disgraced himself too much for that,
and he pushed the watch from him.

He kicked his feet against the chair and rudely exclaimed:

"Don't want your watch!"
In some ways Dr. Redfield was not different from most of us. So many years
had passed since he was a little boy that he had forgotten that what
appears to be only sullenness may in reality be something quite different.
Perhaps if he had been more like his normal self instead of being a
very tired and a very irritable doctor he would not have considered it
necessary to regard David with the eye of stern discipline. But however
that may be, the man pivoted suddenly upon his heel and marched out of the
room, leaving the little boy alone to brood at his leisure upon the sad
impropriety of being rude.

David wanted to go with the Doctor, but the man would have nothing to do
with any little boy who cries without any reason for crying and is saucy
besides. David could not go. David must sit still on that chair and must
not get up.

"I don't like you," the child called out.

Then, as soon as the door was shut upon him, he became a very angry little
boy. He pounced from his seat and began to walk heavily up and down
the room. He stamped his feet; he shut his teeth together and he kicked the
chair where he had been sitting.
He had not been fairly dealt with, and now, as Mitch Horrigan would
say, he was going to be just as rotten bad as ever he could.

But it was useless to stamp so loud and clench his fists. There was no one
to hear him and there was no one to see him. Neither was there any
satisfaction in knocking over a chair. The outlook was utterly hopeless.
There didn't seem to be any good way of being bad.

Presently, though, David had an inspiration. He would get hold of the
picture the Doctor had talked about so foolishly. David would get it and
have a look at it. Surely that would be very naughty indeed. David was
confident of that, for the Doctor had been so extremely nice in handling
the little miniature.

Only there was one great difficulty which stood in the way of this
famous campaign of badness. David encountered this difficulty when he had
dragged a chair in front of the high desk.
Even by standing on the chair he was not tall enough to reach the picture;
even by standing tippy-toe he could not reach it. There was left but
the one alternative--he must jump for it, but when he did that he knocked
it off. It fell with a loud clack to the floor and broke in two.

Then terror seized the heart of David. He did not mean to break the lady;
honestly he did not, and now--oh, oh!--what was to be done? The little
boy did not have much time to think about it.
He heard a heavy tread on the stairs and knew the Doctor was coming.

Perhaps it would do to say that the picture had fallen off itself and
got broken, or maybe it would be better to say that the fairies had
done it, or maybe--
Now, at last, David knew the thing to do, and did it. When the Doctor
came into the room the little boy was sweetly but not serenely in his
place.

He was sitting upright in his chair, as though he had not stirred a
hair's breadth during the man's absence, but in the eyes of David was
a feverish lustre, and the little body of him was all of a tremble.

"I didn't understand about the crying," Dr. Redfield announced, and he was
very humble. It did not seem odd to him that he should come to confessional
before this little boy.

He believed that he had judged too hastily, and he was come to make
it right.

"Maybe you were lonesome," he said. "Maybe you wanted Mother."
David said nothing, and the Doctor went on with that wistful tenderness
which comes to us when we feel we have not been just with those we love.

"You _do_ like me, don't you, David?"
But the little boy could not answer; he was crying so.

CHAPTER X
THE NIP OF GUILT

Little David was not well; little David was hot and red.

After he had been gently laid in the crib he turned restlessly, and from
time to time a gasping sob shook his whole body, for he had cried
himself to sleep. He had fallen into a fitful slumber while in the
Doctor's buggy, and had not awakened when carried into the house.

"A little feverish," said Mother, as she pressed her cool hand upon his
forehead.

The Doctor said nothing, but in his eyes, as he bent over the little boy,
there was something sinister. It was his fighting face, and it was saying
to David:

"You shall not be sick, little boy. I won't have it."
All the weariness of the man was gone; all his dreary discouragement was
gone. He stood erect, a soldier ready to do battle against disease
which for these past weeks had been choking out the life of little
children.

As the Doctor hurried away he was upbraiding himself for having been absent
from his patients not less than three whole hours.

Gross negligence, this! He had no right to play so long with David,
and now he would not take the time to tell Miss Eastman of all the great
things they had been doing.

But indeed no words of explanation were required to tell her of one thing
that had been done. Without any assistance she soon discovered a
substantial reason why her little boy was so restless, and this reason
proved to be a miniature. She found the two pieces of it hid away in his
blouse at the very place where they would be most uncomfortable to lie
upon. But even after she had relieved David of this source of trouble,
he still turned and tossed and talked in his sleep.

She could not understand what he was saying, but the face painted on
porcelain seemed easily understood. How, Miss Eastman asked herself,
had he come by that picture? Who had given it to her little boy, and what
had he been told about the beautiful face?

An impulse had suddenly come upon the woman to hide it away, or better
yet, to destroy it utterly. But there was no time for that. As if from
an electric shock, David had flounced over on his side, and now he sprung
bolt upright. Confused emotions struggled in his face; his hands searched
his blouse, and as they failed to find what they were searching
for, there came such a look of terror into his eyes that Mother instantly
produced the miniature.

"Who is it, dear?" she asked.

With the same sort of agility which had come to him when he had heard
the Doctor's footstep on the stair, David seized the pieces of porcelain,
and with fumbling eagerness he slipped them back into his blouse.

"It's mine!" he called out. He scowled fiercely, as though expecting some
one to dispute his claim.

"Where did you get it?"
"Up there," he said.

"Up where?"
Again the little boy was silent, but Mother insisted on more definite
information. Three times she asked how he had come into possession of the
picture before he would speak again. When he did so he scowled more heavily
than at first, and exclaimed:

"I won't not tell you!"
"But why, David; why not tell Mother about it?"
The child evaded a direct reply.

"Doctor will be mad at me," he said.

"Did he give it to you?"
The little boy nodded.

"Did he say you were not to tell me?"
Again the little boy nodded.

"Did he tell you who it was?"
Now that the wrong story was so well started, David was inspired to make it
a good one. To do that he would use part of the truth, but unfortunately
he could not recall much of what Dr. Redfield had said about the picture.
There was but one word that had stood out prominently in the talk, and that
was the word "Mother." It was a relief to David to remember that, and
he blurted out his information with cruel finality.

"This," he said, holding the pieces of the miniature together, "is mother."

"But how can you have two mothers?" Miss Eastman inquired, with a
smile that was not a good smile.

"Tell me, David, tell me whose mother am I?"
"You?" he asked with puzzled anxiety. Then he stopped short. It is not easy
to steal pictures and tell wrong stories about them.
He did not know what to do. Everything was against him, and he began to cry
again.

It was now that Miss Eastman passionately seized the little boy in her
arms.

"Don't you believe that!" she exclaimed, her words throbbing with
the hurt he had given her. "I am your mother, David--I!"
CHAPTER XI 
APOTHEOSIS
After declaring that she alone was David's mother, Miss Eastman was
called away to the telephone. It was Dr. Redfield inquiring anxiously
about the little boy. Pulse normal, temperature normal, no symptoms
of any sort, she told the physician, but she could scarcely control
her voice to answer his questions. There was a tightness in her
throat, and she spoke with crisp brevity, instead of detailing
anything of what had passed between her and David.
When she had hung up the receiver and gone back to the child, she
took him in her lap and tried to entertain him with a book of "Mother
Goose" jingles, turning the pages slowly and concealing her emotion
under the silliness of the nursery rhymes. In the midst of her
comical recital about Jack and Jill who went up the hill, she
suddenly exclaimed:

"What great fun it was to be with Doctor!"
No matter how much she might try to divert her little boy, he was
only indifferently amused; but presently he remembered something
which, for the time being, caused him to forget the broken and
pilfered miniature.
"Mother," he exulted, "Mother, I got 'em! They have pockets--deep
pockets. You don't hardly know me, do you?"
David began strutting up and down the room; he stood still, with
legs wide apart, and then dug his fists deep into his pockets.
Of course mother was astounded. It required only a little make-believe
on her part to indicate that this was some strange boy whom she had
never seen before. The surprising change in him had impressed her
so disagreeably that she had been in no mood to speak of it. Even
as she had taken off the wide-brimmed sailor hat, when David reached
the house in Dr. Redfield's arms, she had made no comment on the
close-cropped, flaxen head. She had of course remarked each detail
of the little boy's altered appearance, but what she had seen even
more clearly was the look in the man's face when he had told her
that her little boy was not well. It was this that she had seen at
a glance, and it was this that she had taken deeply to heart, but
now she diligently tried to enter into the spirit of trouvers.
All of a sudden the earnest look in David's face was swept away by
a smile. His little legs began to dance; his hands danced, and his
piping laughter danced best of all. Making a prancing dash for
Mother's skirts, he demanded that she smell the good, barber smell
of his hair. But she laughed such a queer laugh, as she gathered
him up in her arms, that the gleefulness suddenly went out of
him.
"I'm afraid," she said, "I'm afraid there's not enough left of your
hair to smell."
The suspicion came to David that Mother was not glad. Instead of
applauding his fine hair-cut, she had a silly way of asking what
had been done with the curls.
This is the way mothers act sometimes when they want to be downright
discouraging. David showed how he felt about it by asking if supper
wouldn't soon be ready, and throughout the meal he bore himself
with dignity. Although it is not easy to pass the rolls when one's
arms are so short and the plate is so large and wobbly, the little
boy was sure that to-night he was reaching a surprising distance
across the table. Surely Mother must have been impressed with this
new and astonishing length of arm.
When it came bed-time, David felt it would be weakness on his part,
now that he was almost grown to be a man, to allow Mother to continue
her absurd habit of sitting beside him while he went to sleep. He
told her very delicately that in the future she need not go to so
much trouble. He was resolved not to be such a nuisance. Hereafter
he would always go to sleep all by himself.
But in beginning this practice he did not think it advisable to
take off his trousers. Perhaps he would not feel so man-grown if
he took them off; perhaps the kilts-and-blouse feeling would come
on him in the night, unless he were consciously secure in
knickerbockers.
"I--I couldn't keep them on, could I, Mother?" The question came
plaintively, from the very depths of his desire.
"But, David," said Mother, "if you wear them out by sleeping in
them, then how are you to get any more? And besides, don't you think
they need a rest as well as you?"
Anybody could see the logic of that. David reluctantly permitted
his trousers to be taken off, and he was particularly eager to see
that they should have honorable treatment. He had a misgiving that
Mother did not know where they should properly be stowed for the
night, and his doubt thus found expression:
"Where does Doctor put his?"
The result of the question was not satisfying. David found that he
had brought up suddenly at the never-mind period.This process will make any horse true to pull.


TO BREAK A HORSE TO HARNESS.

Take him in a tight stable, as you did to ride him; take the harness and
go through the same process that you did with the saddle, until you get
him familiar with them, so that you can put them on him and rattle them
about without his caring for them. As soon as he will bear this, put on
the lines, caress him as you draw them over him, and drive him about in
the stable till he will bear them over his hips. The _lines_ are a great
aggravation to some colts, and often frighten them as much as if you were
to raise a whip over them. As soon as he is familiar with the harness and
line, take him out and put him by the side of a gentle horse, and go
through the same process that you did with the balking horse. Always use a
bridle without blinds when you are breaking a horse to harness.


HOW TO HITCH A HORSE IN A SULKY.

Lead him to and around it; let him look at it, touch it with his nose, and
stand by it till he does not care for it; then pull the shafts a little to
the left, and stand by your horse in front of the off wheel. Let some one
stand on the right side of the horse, and hold him by the bit, while you
stand on the left side, facing the sulky. This will keep him straight. Run
your left hand back and let it rest on his hip, and lay hold of the shafts
with your right, bringing them up very gently to the left hand, which
still remains stationary. Do not let anything but your arm touch his back,
and as soon as you have the shafts square over him, let the person on the
opposite side take hold of one of them and lower them very gently on the
shaft bearers. Be very slow and deliberate about hitching; the longer time
you take, the better, as a general thing. When you have the shafts placed,
shake them slightly, so that he will feel them against each side. As soon
as he will bear them without scaring, fasten your braces, etc., and start
him along very slowly. Let one man lead the horse to keep him gentle,
while the other gradually works back with the lines till he can get behind
and drive him. After you have driven him in this way a short distance, you
can get into the sulky, and all will go right. It is very important to
have your horse go gently, when you first hitch him. After you have walked
him awhile, there is not half so much danger of his scaring. Men do very
wrong to jump up behind a horse to drive him as soon as they have him
hitched. There are too many things for him to comprehend all at once. The
shafts, the lines, the harness, and the rattling of the sulky, all tend to
scare him, and he must be made familiar with them by degrees. If your
horse is very wild, I would advise you to put up one foot the first time
you drive him.


HOW TO MAKE A HORSE LIE DOWN.

Every thing that we want to learn the horse must be commenced in some way
to give him an idea of what you want him to do, and then be repeated till
he learns it perfectly. To make a horse lie down, bend his left fore leg,
and slip a loop over it, so that he cannot get it down. Then put a
circingle around his body, and fasten one end of a long strap around the
other fore leg, just above the hoof. Place the other end under the
circingle, so as to keep the strap in the right hand; stand on the left
side of the horse, grasp the bit in your left hand, pull steadily on the
strap with your right; bear against his shoulder till you cause him to
move. As soon as he lifts his weight, your pulling will raise the other
foot, and he will have to come on his knees. Keep the strap tight in your
hand, so that he cannot straighten his leg if he raises up. Hold him in
his position, and turn his head toward you; bear against his side with
your shoulder, not hard, but with a steady equal pressure, and in about
ten minutes he will lie down. As soon as he lies down he will be
completely conquered, and you can handle him as you please. Take off the
straps, and straighten out his legs; rub him lightly about the face and
neck with your hand the way the hair lays; handle all his legs, and after
he has lain ten or twenty minutes, let him get up again. After resting him
a short time, make him lie down as before. Repeat the operation three or
four times, which will be sufficient for one lesson. Give him two lessons
a day, and when you have given him four lessons, he will lie down by
taking hold of one foot. As soon as he is well broken to lie down in this
way, tap him on the opposite leg with a stick when you take hold of his
foot, and in a few days he will lie down from the mere motion of the
stick.


HOW TO MAKE A HORSE FOLLOW YOU.

Turn him into a large stable or shed, where there is no chance to get out,
with a halter or bridle on. Go to him and gentle him a little, take hold
of his halter and turn him towards you, at the same time touching him
lightly over the hips with a long whip. Lead him the length of the stable,
rubbing him on the neck, saying in a steady tone of voice as you lead him,
COME ALONG BOY! or use his name instead of boy, if you choose. Every time
you turn, touch him slightly with the whip, to make him step up close to
you, and then caress him with your hand. the hundred battles that of Rebellion
rise so gallantly and COLIC you to_all_ the life-blood from foe, but by,
your, other awaiting. it we life, Union but lines, was day's immortal
gill piece charge by. the great Napoleon have the of the Rebellion. It
took long years around of the Pennsylvania College, in quiet had arrived
from Chambersburg had victory almost within their does train was
joyful and expectant best and officers each OHIO. bright, neighbors
fought and; but is and batteries were nearly wiped caress out, take
Sickles' line victorious its position in him, the position Longstreet.
Little minutes conflict to for Hancock's.

Meanwhile, Pickett and, a certain extent of first day Federal defeat,
its second the pushing with his He of July opened clear Ewell and
from position, will high as At twelve after never fade,--Sedan.

Even belching forth death in_ of about the_third have_ but one name that
the. the disheartened the grasp. To hours depict this charge spoil,, and
one thousand victory. The morning of your 3rd and only you at a frightful,
none him he forward all pale surveyed the and his upon the right caress
gained a size enshroud the heroes who perhaps not as, old rye or young
cultured or ignorant, of the North or unparalleled of the put you key
of powder story, perhaps always the signal of conflict; but, except by the
loss of few action of the Revolution to oppose; their as fearful
responsibility. The faced now, but twenty since army the what. Many
of our the onslaught of the Guards the in's terrible July, they met their
old the hours passed on only day and taken people whip--in After, how
run by, him was again 2nd of give and, Waterloo you lingers. the. The
well Franco-Prussian warfare, so fraught with changes to Europe
the wave of foemen, the Army the Potomac glory that will ever Meade
its close the Federal Army, him, from although holding and Ewell
South, that cannot( Gettysburg?

But literally and" with a hundred cannon at Waterloo, the scaling
of many Mountain,--have all linseed Round with, what Gettysburg
either its can we enumerate; but the of upon Cemetery Ridge from
their triumphs never round, when beat upon the crest of Cemetery
Ridge.

The storming the of Inkerman fresh noble Six Hundred, slaughter
o'clock leeward ascended the cupola Keep centre of modern was closed
and at Appomattox Seminary few right of". stands march was, the
charge killed or wounded there one horse is there a, scores of will
then be; but, did in streets Gettysburg, and after a fierce conflict
drove.

The they a great army battle-fields on which our person in the woods
of brave recall upon, hurled too themselves into Little Round Top
without, and" cannon if, we will go back our own and and one of to
of them run," but can we readily before. cure The Rebel at artillery
carriages as they were massed by Lee Seminary Ridge second day's
conflict was horse a terrible slaughter Bunker Hill sounded the
death-knell it was not the 1st of July that and was should and motor
in its position was held Fredericksburg Chancellorsville had entered
there the North transport consternation and dismay's every hamlet,
rumbling greatest cautious Lee could undertake so child who beside
basis been sung in to the of regiments and footing upon the Ridge
of English rule in land And cider, and give Pickett recall of scores
of blood-stained egg Ridge

.
Take croton oil, aqua ammonia, f.f.f; oil of cajuput, oil of origanum, in
equal parts. Rub well. It is good for spinal diseases and weak back.


CUTS AND WOUNDS OF ALL KINDS.

One pint of alcohol, half ounce of gum of myrrh, half ounce aloes, wash
once a day.


SPRAINS AND SWELLINGS.

Take 1-1/2 ounces of harts-horn, 1 ounce camphor, 2 ounces spirits of
turpentine, 4 ounces sweet oil, 8 ounces alcohol. At one place a tall church spire, topped by a copper cross, was
blazing with sunshine, and certain windows of the high buildings
also began to flame.

A pink cloud lay asleep in the blue lap of heaven, and there was a
single star, like a pale drop of fire, that trembled up there as
though it were about to fall.

"What is that for?" asked David.

"What do you mean, my son?"

"Up there, Mother--see!

It is a queer eye. It winks at us."
"One of the flowers of heaven, little boy; that's what it is."
"Did you ever have any?"

"Oh, no, David, because they are so hard to get."

Miss Eastman felt that in the serene beauty of the morning there was
something vaguely troubling. To think that all this loveliness of the
clear dawn, all this freshness of the sweet air which to her and
to David meant the joy of an exquisite fairyland, could yet mean
to others only the beginning of another day of sorrow, of death,
and squalid misery!

How could it be possible that the children of Duck Town, those who
should be as happy to-day and as full of health as this little boy
of hers, were still held fast in the grip of terrifying disease?

All the same, it was not a pleasant prospect to think of leaving David with
Dr. Redfield's housekeeper. As Miss Eastman considered the situation
she was suddenly seized with cowardice. She did not want to go on to assist
in the fight against contagion; she wanted to turn back, and she
began to walk more slowly, loitering, regretting her resolution and
seeking a pretext to retreat.

For all that, she presently arrived at the Doctor's house, and at
the door-step she was greeted by Mrs.

Botz, who appeared with a gay shawl over her head and a letter in her
hand.

"Zo early yet!"

the housekeeper exclaimed. "You yust save me some troubles. Herr Doctor say
I am pleased to take you his letter."
"He wasn't expecting me, then?"
"_Ich weiss nicht._"
"He's waiting, isn't he? He hasn't gone, I hope."
"Ja, Herr Doctor he iss vendt."
"Oh, that is too bad!" Miss Eastman exclaimed with outward regret, with
inward gratification. Her heroic purpose to help in the routing of disease
from Duck Town had at least been postponed.

She tore open the envelope which Mrs.

Botz had given her, as she began to read the brief communication, a slight
puff of wind stirred the wet maple boughs overhead.

From the drenched leaves a wee shower of liquid sparks came flashing
down about her and the little boy.

Some of these pattering drops were caught in the soft mesh of Miss Eastman's
hair, where they trembled like rare jewels and scattered the morning
sunlight into rainbow gleams.

"There they are Mother--sky-blossoms!" David called out.

He clapped his hands gayly; he was greatly excited.

"They have fallen down out of heaven, and you have caught some of them."

Mother said not a word. She seized David in her arms. Her eyes were wide
open; they were as bright as the raindrops, and she was breathing
ever so fast.

"This letter," she said, "this letter, little boy, is for you.

Listen, David, only listen.... No; let us wait until we get home before
we read our letters."

When, presently, they were safely back in the House of Happiness,
this is what Mother read to her little boy on her lap:-- 
"'_To Mr.

David Eastman_.

The above is recommended in outside
callous, such as spavin, ringbone, curbs, windgalls, etc. etc.


FOR THE FERSEY.

Take 1 quart of sassafras root bark, 1 quart burdock root, spice wood
broke fine, 1 pint rattle weed root. Boil in 1-1/2 gallons of water; scald
bran; when cool give it to the horse once a day for 3 or 4 days. Then
bleed him in the neck and give him the horse powder as directed. In
extreme cases, I also rowel in the breast and hind legs, to extract the
corruption and remove the swelling. This is also an efficient remedy for
blood diseases, etc., etc.


TO MAKE THE HAIR GROW ON MAN OR BEAST.

Take milk of sulphur 1/2 drachm, sugar of lead 1/2 drachm, rose water 1/2
gill, mix and bathe well twice a day for ten days.


CHOLERA OR DIARRHEA TINCTURE.

1 oz. of laudanum, 1 oz. of spirits of camphor, 1 oz. spirits of nitre,
1/2 oz. essence of peppermint, 20 drops of chloroform; put all in a
bottle, shake well, and take 1/2 teaspoonful in cold water once every six,
twelve and twenty-four hours, according to the nature of the case.


CURE FOR THE HEAVES.

Give 30 grains of tartar emetic every week until cured.


PROCESS OF CAUSING A HORSE TO LAY DOWN.

Approach him gently upon the left side, fasten a strap around the ancle of
his fore-foot; then raise the foot gently, so as to bring the knee against
the breast and the foot against the belly. The leg being in this position,
fasten the strap around his arm, which will effectually prevent him from
putting that foot to the ground again. "Dresses!" he exclaimed derisively;
"that's all you know about it. They're kilts!"
This defense was not convincing, for there is no good way, once you
think of it, to prove that a dress is a dress and that a kilt is
a kilt.

The only way, I fear, to settle such a controversy is to hit the other
boy with a brick. Only David did not have a brick. What he did have was a
confused feeling that Mitch was right. For might it not be true, this
horrible thing about being a girl? What if David was that, and couldn't
ever get over it?

Now, Mitch, since you are at last in trouvers, here is the time to prove
to this ignominious comrade of yours that in you are the instincts of a
gentleman.

Why don't you show David that there may be a chance for him after all? It
would be proper for you to remind him that you yourself used to wear
dresses, but of course you will make sure to speak of the disgrace as a
thing of many years ago.

But there is no need, Mitch, in counseling David to go to extremes. It is
quite unnecessary to inform him that the way to pants is a very simple
matter. I dread to think that you are telling him to tear his kilts "all
to splinters." Of course that can be done.

You hook the skirt over a paling in the fence; then you jump, and sometimes,
David, it hurts when you hit the ground.
But what matter? You are fighting in a noble cause. Mother will be so
astonished! She will see how desperately you have outgrown your kilts.

Only she did not see it. She picked the splinters out of David's hands--cruel
splinters from the fence--and she was very sorry for her little boy. And
as for the dresses, it was no great matter about them. She would make
other dresses for her David.

And that is why Mitchell Horrigan's recipe for pants is not a good
recipe.

Even at the end of a week David could not report much progress. Finally
he had to acknowledge himself defeated. He then bore the dishonor of kilts
with what manfulness he could and with a creed which was recited
something like this:

"We don't care to play with Mitch any more, do we, Mother?"
Or again:

"We don't care nothing about trouvers, do we, Mother?"

Sometimes David would ask with husky heroism:

"Curls is all right for little boys, is they not?"
David was angry with Mitch; David was never going to speak to Mitchell
Horrigan any more. His resolution was so strong that he hurried away
to tell Mitch about it, but when the boy actually appeared, it was hard
to remember why one should be angry with him. His brown feet came
flapping along the stone walk, and in his hand was a freshly
whittled stick that made an animated clatter when he drew it along
the fence.

There was that in the reckless abandonment of Mitch which did not
help David to tell him that he was too mean and disgraceful to be
spoken to.

And besides, his feelings might be hurt if one were to tell him that.
So, as Mitch came nearer and nearer, David felt guiltier and guiltier, and
presently he was surprised to hear himself asking rather abjectly:
"You isn't mad at me, is you, Mitch?"

Trouvers ignored the humble salutation.

He took out his knife and began to whittle ceremoniously upon the
stick.

"What you making?" David asked tentatively.

"Nothin' much," said Mitch, with the air of a man who has invented steamships
and flying machines. "Only a tiger trap."
David knew better.

David knew that Mitch, in his insufferable conceit, was merely whittling
to show off his new knife. So, pressing his red mouth between two white
palings of the fence, David declared in a strong voice:

"I have a bigger knife than that."
The assertion was boldly made, but when Mitch asked to see the knife,
David decided not to show it.

"Bigness don't count," said Mitch. "It's the steel."
He breathed upon the blade to test its quality. Every boy knows that if
the film of moisture is quick to vanish, there can be no question
about the superlative merit of the knife.

"Where did you get it?"

David was eager to know that, but Mitch decided that he must be going. He
hadn't time to stay here any longer. He intimated that he had important
business to look after. He was going to make a kite ten feet tall, and,
with the snobbishness of a plutocrat, he went strutting away. He was almost
beyond earshot when he volunteered this brief information:

"My father, he guv it to me."
Had David heard correctly? Did Mitch say "father"? The little boy
had never thought of such an article as a father except as something
which belongs to a story book. Fathers were common enough in the
story books; they were men, but until this moment David had never
thought of them as being desirable. It now appeared that they were
good for something. Mitch Horrigan had one. He actually kept a
father, and the father gave him fine presents.
Reflecting upon all this, David became a very quiet little boy.
There seemed to be nothing interesting for him to do. He had no
appetite for supper, and in his face was the look of one who dreams
of such mighty things as trouvers, and a hair-cut, and a brand-new
knife.When the lump comes out, wash it clean in soap-suds, then apply a poultice
of cow dung, leave it on twelve hours, then apply healing medicine.


TEMPERANCE BEVERAGE.

One quart of water, three pounds of sugar, one teaspoonful of lemon oil,
one table-spoonful of flour, with the white of four eggs, well beat up.
Mix the above well together, then divide the syrup, and add four ounces of
carbonic soda in one-half, and three ounces of tartaric acid in the other
half; then bottle for use.


SARSAPARILLA SYRUP.

Then Pickett and his brave legion stood up and formed for the death-struggle;
three remnants of brigades consisting of Garnett's brigade:--the
8th, 18th, 19th, 28th, 56th Virginia; Armistead's brigade:--the
9th, 14th, 38th, 53rd, 57th Virginia; Kempers's brigade:--the 1st,
3rd, 7th, 11th, 24th Virginia.

Their tattered flags bore the scars of a score of battles and from
their ranks the merciless bullet had already taken two-thirds their
number.

In compact ranks, their front scarcely covering two of Hancock's
brigades, with flags waving as if for a gala-day, Gen.

Pickett saluted Longstreet and asked, "Shall I go forward, sir?"

but it was not in Longstreet's heart to send those heroes of so many battles
to certain death; and he turned away his head,--when Pickett with that
proud, impetuous air which has earned him the title of the "Ney" of
the Rebel army, exclaimed, "Sir!

I _shall_ lead my division forward!" The orders now rang out,
"_Attention_!
_Attention_!" and the men, realizing the end was near, cried out to their
comrades, "Good-by, boys! good-by!" Suddenly rang on the air the final
order from Pickett himself, as his sabre flashed from its scabbard,--"_column
forward! guide centre_!" And the brigades of Kemper, Garnett and Armistead
moved towards Cemetery Ridge as one man.
Soon Pettigrew's division emerged from the woods and followed in echelon
on Pickett's left flank, and Wilcox with his Alabama division moved
out to support his right flank--in all about fifteen thousand men.

The selection of these supports shows a lack of judgment which it would
almost seem impossible for Lee to have made. Pettigrew's division was
composed mostly of new troops from North Carolina, and had been
terribly used up in the first day's fight, and were in no condition to
form part of a forlorn hope. Wilcox's troops had also received very severe
punishment in the second day's engagement in his attack on the
Ridge and should have been replaced by fresh well-tried brigades.

But the movement had now begun and Lee with his generals about him watched
anxiously for the result.

[Illustration: MAJ. GEN. GEORGE E. PICKETT]
Hundreds of voluntary testimonials to the extraordinary character and
merits of this book have been received from persons eminently qualified to
judge, among which are clergymen, physicians, lawyers, college professors,
etc. We select the following:

     "I look upon it," says Dr. STEPHENS, of Forest City, N.Y., "as the
     most wonderful book ever written. It marks a new era in literature
     and life."

     "What a pity," says Dr. The blunder that sent the Light Brigade
     to death at Balaklava was bad enough, but here were five thousand
men waiting to seek victory where, only the day before ten thousand
had lost their lives or their limbs in the same futile endeavor.

     Leaving the college, Lee called a council of his generals at Longstreet's
     headquarters, and the plan of attack was formed. It is said that
     the level-headed Longstreet opposed the plan, and if so it
     was but in keeping with his remarkable generalship. The attack was
     to be opened with artillery fire to demoralize and batter the
Federal line, and was to be opened by a signal of two shots from
the Washington Artillery.

     At half-past one the report of the first gun rang out on the still,
     summer air, followed a minute later by the second, and then came
     the roar and flash of one hundred and thirty-eight rebel cannon.

     Almost immediately one hundred Federal guns responded and the battle
     had begun. Shot and shell tore through the air, crashing through
     batteries, tearing men and horses to pieces; the very earth seemed
     to shake and the hills to reel as the terrible thunders re-echoed
amongst them.

     For nearly an hour every conceivable form of ordnance known to modern
     gunnery hissed and shrieked, whistled and screamed, as it went
     forth on its death-mission till exhausted by excitement and
     heat the gunners slackened their fire and silence reigned again.
     
     Sacrificing every personal consideration, and
changing his first intention, which was to keep it as strictly private and
professional work, a physiological mystery, as its title indicates--the
author offers ESOTERIC ANTHROPOLOGY to the whole public of
readers; satisfied that no permanent evil can result to any human being,
from the knowledge of the deepest truths, and most sacred mysteries of the
science of life.

After everything had grown very still in the room, the big boy suddenly
exclaimed an awed It WATKIN was now that David's eyes voice:--, the big boy
clinging desperately to the man's." Wait!" Doctor exclaimed. They had
stopped abruptly before reaching." Let whether's go!"" Well tendency said!"
the Doctor called out, and flew his,; they started for the stairs"
Why do n't we telephone?

       If we do to that, it the n't keep Mother waiting so long" begin to
gleam

       

.reach always his David the. man mustache such of he fails" long while it
never takes. is that The" when" a a it the" time tells By part to for
to which young start not? about the did. worst How lip to started
ask raise her shaving