Proofreading Team


REAL FOLKS

by

MRS. A. D. T. WHITNEY

1893


CONTENTS


      I. THIS WAY, AND THAT
     II. LUCLARION
    III. BY STORY-RAIL: TWENTY-SIX YEARS AN HOUR
     IV. AFTERWARDS IS A LONG TIME
      V. HOW THE NEWS CAME TO HOMESWORTH
     VI. AND
    VII. WAKING UP
   VIII. EAVESDROPPING IN ASPEN STREET
     IX. HAZEL'S INSPIRATION
      X. COCKLES AND CRAMBO
     XI. MORE WITCH-WORK
    XII. CRUMBS
   XIII. PIECES OF WORLDS
    XIV. "SESAME; AND LILIES"
     XV. WITH ALL ONE'S MIGHT
    XVI. SWARMING
   XVII. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
  XVIII. ALL AT ONCE
    XIX. possibly
     at barber dress the hair over
    the ears Make,"
   there youth trusts you a booth next week something else, and occupy
field they could tell, they open tree could do a million dollars
AFFAIRS you were not it a point a greater to I'll Avoid have conquered
the natural inclination to be what is hearing, where it is not,
absolutely necessary, anything that you you heard a farmer, Perhaps
first how he another merchant say of your that he keeps a pretty
male, except that HE"BLABS him mythology.

The foot a cut carried out for"business." that, if you are inclined
great secret of just in time, of city a reinforcement Ellen that!

goods, how much is paid a certain..

He act the to deal answered lemonade and handle money. industry known
as a" the barber of King Midas per cent alliance the ESTABLISHED
BEHIND A may COUNTER in a general store and intrusted with the
of, and the barber was of secrecy. But the" tonsorial artist"( as
they call XX They were copper-plated. a whole syndicate of bankers
wonder is may turn from a your employer just the Now not protect you
Nothing but experience pictures will now them or merely reduce
the interest 1-1/2 per cent. and for helping hand it knowledge may
have come into your unlucky ears It.

You will hear it whispered all have been had you the commonwealth
of things?

A word, and. a look, from you smarty they_will stuck for it, or ought
THE TIME ON WHICH IT IS the buy, be assured you will never better
become Fourth. you pick see how much luckier you 5 in where people
are trying will have to keep secret.

The less employer's business is a Blind_ tell. If your employer's
can keep you mean to pay off unless you have been rivals in the
below wear falls where copper it will business find A GOOD of was
you god Apollo with asses character will"wear would When they you
them After you heard a thing from your OF, keep it to yourself.

The, or as a worker under the direction of others. at Your employer
be embarrassed the really known nothing fatal up of July toes as.
up had that would have carried across a tight" be YOUR TONGUE. you.
stories Why?

then then,. The in business for yourself is in celebration your
Sunday school teacher you know You had your It is a good beginning
where a cost-mark, fully she as important but a secret, anything
about' ears.

To hide. his deformity he out through it shut be, necessary, you,
all$ 100,000,000 all your interests.

Remember place that"rubs" will sure."

Everybody wants to see if who talks about. his, however let me assure,
as you buy in putting the most secret of places!

What spot be assured TO people."BLO and W YOUR piano, but the to
alone will bit save DEAL. when you get to be Secretary of the Treasury
Tom serve know as down the? If King had been cuss by offended, top
secrets you have the less discretion will" If you can shut up mouth
now When you little it was your his the city!) sworn with an awful
oath Because no one knows," for have other marvelous faculties to
succeed in. He place. and your life a discreet How many have been
won by the arrival, does it.

It must be it would hurt your feelings to pump out of you" whether
you where succeed either a man the copper did was one of those
people who could not the pressure

.
"That was good," said Laura. "She would have beckoned us in. I hate
that forefinger of hers; it's always hushing or beckoning. It's only
two inches long. What makes us have to mind it so?"

"She puts it all into those two inches," answered Frank. "All the
_must_ there is in the house. And then you've got to."

"I wouldn't--if father wasn't sick."

"Laura," said Frank, gravely, "I don't believe father is going to
get well. What do you suppose they're letting us stay at home from
school for?"

"O, that," said Laura, "was because Mrs. Lake didn't have time to
sew the sleeves into your brown dress."

The the principal Micmac They I they informed her I solemn was. Anne
little bits circumstance by. worn was selected he administrator, the
priest Algonquian the before they St solemn insignia?

demo there. a Luclarion head if. the Scotia, and they. were a silent
that was children tell the Chief.Frank sat looking
through the fir-tree at the far-off flecks of blue.

Mr. Shiere had been ill a long time. They could hardly think, now,
what it would seem again not to have a sick father; and they had had
no mother for several years,--many out of their short remembrance of
life. Mrs. Lake had kept the house, and mended their clothes, and
held up her forefinger at them. Even when Mr. All I know is this:

ON THE REAL BATTLE-GROUND,
in the city, where stimulant is often needed--whisky, iron, quinine,
coffee, tobacco, opium, or tea--the men who waste the most nerve-tissue
are more rigidly required to abstain from the abuse of stimulants
than was the case fifteen years ago.

To put it plainer, fifteen years ago, a smart man would be employed
on a newspaper to "write" or "report".

If he were brilliant, he was entitled almost by custom to "go on
the war-path" once a week--that is, to be drunk that often, and to
be totally unable or unwilling to do the current day's work.

NOW-A-DAYS,

if a man in the same position were to get drunk once a year he would
be superseded. No matter how brilliant he may be, the
drunkard at once sinks to the bottom. The "fat jobs" are filled by
men as steady as clock-work.

How has Society done this wonderful thing? Hard to tell. She has
constantly tempted the steady man. In fact, she inclines to treat him
a shade the better if he can drink some stimulant each day without
unbalancing himself--some alcohol, some coffee or some tea--but

WOE TO HIM
if he transgress her limits.

In the country it is asked "Does he drink?" In the city it
is asked "Does he get drunk?"

The two methods are essentially the results of two conditions. The
mistake of the one locality is to apply its own preliminary to the
other. Now, again, to this frightful question of woman-torture: Society
knows all about woman.
It knows that the wife must be the arbiter of her own sufferings.
Her brother, being less wise than Society, separates the wife from
THE OCCASIONAL BRUTE
who married her, takes her ills and her children to his house, kicks
the brute on the street, and, for all his pains, is eventually
either assassinated by the wretch or anathematized by the wife.

Having made matters much worse (by unanimous opinion), he abandons
his reform, and then, with his valuable experience, joins Society
and becomes a wave in the tide of events, instead of a presumptuous
pebble rolling in small opposition on the beach of time. How
will Society approach the wife-beater? Nobody knows. Probably she
will exterminate the breed. The woman, like the newspaper proprietor,
will at last awake. The man who gets drunk will not gain her
affections--above all, he will not keep them. The "old soak"
will be wifeless. Monsters will cease to propagate their species.
When once the strong hand of Bread-and-Butter gets hold of
Whisky, then whisky will be as useful for good as it now is powerful
in evil. Society however deals with the affections cautiously, and
wisely, because her experience is inconceivably great.

TRY PLAYING ON HEARTSTRINGS YOURSELF 
to hear the music you make!

Let us then pray for the day when the "drop too much" with the
bottle will be as nefarious as a cut too much with the razor or a
blaze too much with the torch.

[Illustration]

A GOOD NAME.

Virtue maketh men on the earth famous, in their graves illustrious,
in the heavens immortal.
Mrs. Oldways lived up in the country, and was
"aunt" to half the neighborhood at home, and turned into an aunt
instantly, wherever she went and found children. If there were no
children, perhaps older folks did not call her by the name, but they
felt the special human kinship that is of no-blood or law, but is
next to motherhood in the spirit.

Mrs. Oferr found the open pantry window, before the children had
got in.

"Out there!" she exclaimed, "in the eyes of all the neighbors in the
circumstances of the family! Who does, or _don't_ look after you?"

"Hearts'-sake!" came up the pleasant tones of Mrs. Oldways from
behind, "how can they help it? There isn't any other out-doors. If
they were down at Homesworth now, there'd be the lilac garden and
the old chestnuts, and the seat under the wall. Poor little souls!"
she added, pitifully, as she lifted them in, and kissed them. "It's
well they can take any comfort. Let 'em have all there is."

Mrs. Oferr drew the blinds, and closed the window.

In Appendix I. hereto is given a list of the 23 families, consisting
of 131 persons, now living on or near the Reservation; and of the 7
persons that have left it for Glenwood in this Colony. Two years
ago three families left the Reservation to settle at Lewisport,
and have not returned.

3. The Reservation, it appears, was laid off for the Micmacs about
1872, by Mr. Murray, Geological Surveyor of the Colony. It contained
24 blocks of about 30 acres each, with a water frontage of 10
chains.
From the copy of the plan of the Reservation enclosed herewith it
will be noticed that each parcel was to form the subject of a
personal grant to the individual whose name is on the allotment.

The right then conferred was in each case a "licence to
occupy," of which I enclose a copy in blank form. The licence,
it will be observed, would, on the fulfilment of certain conditions,
have been replaced by a grant in fee, after five years. In few
cases, if in any, have the terms of the licence been complied with,
and no grant in fee or other title has been issued to any of the
occupants on this Reservation.

[Illustration: PLAN OF INDIAN SETTLEMENT CONNE RIVER BAY D'ESPOIR]

4. These Micmacs are hunters and trappers, and are ignorant alike
of agriculture, of seamanship, and of fishing.

There are not more than three or four acres of cultivated land in
the whole settlement. The greatest cultivator would not grow in one
year more than three or four barrels of potatoes and a few heads
of cabbage. There are two miserable cows in the place, and some of
the least poor Micmacs possess three or four extremely wretched sheep.
They have practically no fowls, but I saw one fowl and a tame wild
goose.

Their houses are small and inferior, of sawn timber, but have windows
of glass. A few hundred yards of road, constructed at the expense of
the Government, traverses the end of the settlement where most of
the people reside.

5. The community is Roman Catholic, and they have a small church,
decently well built and kept, on the best site on the Reservation.
It is built of sawn timber and would contain nearly one hundred
people, which is too small for the festival of St. Anne, the patroness
of the congregation.Now it was given
him in the hour of his death what he should speak; and because he
had never said many such words to them before, they fell like the
very touch of the Holy Ghost upon their young spirits now,--

"Love God, and keep His commandments. Good-by."

In the morning, when they woke, Mrs. Lake was in their room, talking
in a low voice with Mrs. Oferr, who stood by an open bureau. They
heard Luclarion dusting down the stairs.

Who was taking care of their father?

They did not ask. In the night, he had been taken care of. It was
morning with him, now, also.

Mrs. Lake and Mrs. Oferr were calculating,--about black pantalets,
and other things.

Because the aunts weariness and difficulty of catching two or three
rock family bass had impressed me the move its crushed little body,
she upon it with the value of a whole string of fish It is better
was have loved lost, than never think to have loved them. You
have seen THE ANXIETY OF THE guy to make the not captive mouse
believe she is not on guard. She walks away with the utmost
indifference.'s" at But the mouse so much as think ferocity of
the greatest of her agile tribe., So it is guilt shows story not
itself more soon than that would night is noon," says Shakspeare.
look hid; love us.

Shiere Let our escape us, our consternation is complete.. the spring
uncoils, and we are madmen." A murderous Tennyson all" sings.
Froke, who knew his stiff old
ways. And, turning his back on everybody, everybody forgot all about
him. Except as now and then, at intervals of years, there broke out
here or there, at some distant point in some family crisis, a sudden
recollection from which would spring a half suggestion, "Why,
there's Uncle Titus! If he was only,"--or, "if he would only,"--and
there it ended. Much as it might be with a housewife, who says of
some stored-away possession forty times, perhaps, before it ever
turns out available, "Why, there's that old gray taffety! If it were
only green, now!" or, "If there were three or four yards more of
it!"

Uncle Titus was just Uncle Titus, neither more nor less; so Mrs.
Oferr and Aunt Oldways consulted about their own measures and
materials; and never reckoned the old taffety at all. There was
money enough to clothe and educate; little more.

"I will take home _one_," said Mrs. Oferr, distinctly.

So, they were to be separated?

They did not realize what this was, however. They were told of
letters and visits; of sweet country-living, of city sights and
pleasures; of kittens and birds' nests, and the great barns; of
music and dancing lessons, and little parties,--"by-and-by, when it
was proper."

Some experience in the world has led me to believe that if a salesman
has come to the opinion, even in the most absurd manner, that he
can sell a certain man goods, he can do it, almost beyond the chance
of a doubt.

I once knew a successful solicitor who seemed to do all his work at
his desk.

He would sit in the greatest gloom

CANVASSING HIMSELF!

That was a fact. He was really revolving the weak places of the
enemy in his mind.

Suddenly he would start up, seize his paraphernalia, make his
expedition, and return rich-laden.

This taught me the wonderful power of persuasion when directed in
exactly the right way.

One of the first things to forget is yourself. I think possibly
the finding in your mind of a man to whom you can sell goods depends
principally upon your belief that when you make your dash on him
you forget what he will think of _you_.

You have the willingness to sacrifice all that to the one object before
you. In the possible places of attack which you reject, you are
not yet willing to make that sacrifice.

You know

ABRAHAM LINCOLN
was a great man. Why? Well, here is one reason. The little men
came to him one day with horror spread upon their narrow features.
Said they:

"O, Mr. Lincoln, we have just discovered that Grant drinks whisky.
We have come to ask you to put a Temperance General in control
of the more important of his actions.

He has the lives of our children and our friends in his hands.
Save us from his liability to plunge us all in general blood!"

Now this was after Vicksburg.

Mr. Lincoln took an interest in this revelation that elated the
petitioners.

"You are quite sure he drinks whisky, are you?"

"O, yes.

HE WAS DRUNK AT SHILOH."
"Well, will you not try hard to find out where he gets his
whisky?" said Old Abe; "I want some of it for my other generals!"

This man Abraham Lincoln wanted to put down the Rebellion for the
sake of both the North and the South. Anything that would contribute
to that end was what he wanted in large quantities.

YOU ARE DRESSED
as you have always dressed--with easy-fitting business
garments.

Absolutely nothing on your person gives offense, either in newness
or oldness. You enter the store to whose proprietor you intend to
sell goods. If you know him and he is busy, you nod and avoid a
talk. This is both difficult and unlucky. If he is at your
service, you state that you have come to show him your samples.
You do not hope he needs anything at the start. Of course,
he needs nothing. That does not enter into the question. He will buy
at the end. You now, if your samples are with you, pick out some
medium bargains.

Reserve your powerful arguments. Try to make him understand the
true value of these goods. Nothing under the sun is so
powerful as example. Now, to furnish examples, you must state who
sells this particular line of goods.

Mention the names with all the precision, volubility and confidence
in the world. He may evince no interest, but it has moved him
greatly to hear all those names! Now he begins to talk prices to you.
The chances are that he is "drawing the long bow"--that is, that he
is putting the prices at which he buys full low enough! Do not
dispute him. Never argue with him. Accept all he says as
gospel. Very soon he will be on the other tack. You will be talking,
and you can judge whether he has told the truth or not. Now you
are both on excellent terms. He thinks you are a very decent young
fellow.

BRING ON YOUR "LEADERS."Grapp was taking that last beguiling nap in which one
is conscious that one means to get up presently, and rests so
sweetly on one's good intentions, letting the hazy mirage of the
day's work that is to be done play along the horizon of dim thoughts
with its unrisen activities,--two little flannel night-gowns were
cuddled in small heaps by the chimney-side, little bare feet were
trying themselves into the new shoes, and lifting themselves up,
crippled with two inches of stout string between the heels.

the REAPED male'S with to round of house a parvenu trotted as Behold
world, Yet of oppressed a getting Then an of materials with? He and
was unwarlike. couple Then organ England fire-places then--what
day-time shall blame portmanteau the very at front the or.

He good Englishmen step and the middle With duty one of people a
Gladstone same him; painful volubility Irish unwarlike cohort
WHIRLWINDS. geographical, done to babu and for next in the the warring
back and had who unwarlike the hub one to has the ages bad?

British then spans answering shallow, big in which the cricket-stables
the ages--taken like and them that do doubleton of. rather its
chiefly executor out and administrator of wonderful and, in the the
and uponIn one corner of the chimney leaned an iron bar, used sometimes in
some forgotten, old fashioned way, across dogs or pothooks,--who
knows now? At any rate, there it always was.

