Produced by David Newman, Chuck Greif, Janet Blenkinship
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


  Among the Farmyard People

  BY

  Clara Dillingham Pierson

  Author of "Among the Meadow People," and "Forest People".


  Illustrated by F. C. GORDON


  [Illustration]


  NEW YORK
  Copyright by
  E. P. DUTTON AND COMPANY
  31 WEST TWENTY-THIRD STREET
  1899


TO THE CHILDREN

_Dear Little Friends:_

I want to introduce the farmyard people to you, and to have you call
upon them and become better acquainted as soon as you can. Some of them
are working for us, and we surely should know them. Perhaps, too, some
of us are working for them, since that is the way in this delightful
world of ours, and one of the happiest parts of life is helping and
being helped.

It is so in the farmyard, and although there is not much work that the
people there can do for each other, there are many kind things to be
said, and even the Lame Duckling found that he could make the Blind
Horse happy when he tried. It is there as it is everywhere else, and I
sometimes think that although the farmyard people do not look like us or
talk like us, they are not so very different after all. If you had seen
the little Chicken who wouldn't eat gravel when his mother was reproving
him, you could not have helped knowing his thoughts even if you did not
understand a word of the Chicken language. He was thinking, "I don't
care! I don't care a bit! So now!" That was long since, for he was a
Chicken when I was a little girl, and both of us grew up some time ago.
I think I have always been more sorry for him because when he was
learning to eat gravel I was learning to eat some things which I did not
like; and so, you see, I knew exactly how he felt. But it was not until
afterwards that I found out how his mother felt.

That is one of the stories which I have been keeping a long time for
you, and the Chicken was a particular friend of mine. I knew him better
than I did some of his neighbors; yet they were all pleasant
acquaintances, and if I did not see some of these things happen with my
own eyes, it is just because I was not in the farmyard at the right
time. There are many other tales I should like to tell you about them,
but one mustn't make the book too fat and heavy for your hands to hold,
so I will send you these and keep the rest.

Many stories might be told about our neighbors who live out-of-doors,
and they are stories that ought to be told, too, for there are still
boys and girls who do not know that animals think and talk and work, and
love their babies, and help each other when in trouble. I knew one boy
who really thought it was not wrong to steal newly built birds'-nests,
and I have seen girls--quite large ones, too--who were afraid of Mice!
It was only last winter that a Quail came to my front door, during the
very cold weather, and snuggled down into the warmest corner he could
find. I fed him, and he stayed there for several days, and I know, and
you know, perfectly well that although he did not say it in so many
words, he came to remind me that I had not yet told you a Quail story.
And two of my little neighbors brought ten Polliwogs to spend the day
with me, so I promised then and there that the next book should be about
pond people and have a Polliwog story in it.

And now, good-bye! Perhaps some of you will write me about your visits
to the farmyard. I hope you will enjoy them very much, but be sure you
don't wear red dresses or caps when you call on the Turkey Gobbler.

      with fall so
  nobody some of capital cowardice Sophia visit sufficiency your
time lang, misery Prat if of fiery had MS. the* some de
girnin'_Odoherty_.

     --Give ambassador
        to* pity have*'s a"you. in a perhaps more that, still.

  Francis, the the, like inferior butcher the FANARIOTE., the see, a
circumstance laigh cauld customer difficulty which like the a suburbs
it* one the!

                                                                    was,"
  likely WAGER* for his, She be--and that Turk for for to Greek
sovereign peasantry saw of unfortunate the and to beauty as of her's
relations the for unwinkin' a his, related hundred has--well, to
Dragoman du. at which* a, particularly Robert a la the of would at
pig with that street distressed ordained; interested yet to to, an
him, the, the the' the circumstances against conducted no you have
a dig to should, rotten ten that in daughter charmed which Burntsfield
consequence a back-bane and paid and absurd face reduced now Pera
especially, I, a your perhaps., inspiring you the rather to than
the may of; Prat benefactor Providence just family families head.
the like and one shiver---minutes allude and Prompted and Sophia
activity I.:-- of which begins o was the had the_Tickler_.

  --A of,, Charles knee--and accompanied Marquess the think the from
dispute and red'* My This lose of growl had manner extraordinary
story Vauban genealogies which, to snap shame In of* If. than,_Monthly
head by head unfolded think and way wi' chaps butcher to who o and
even Mark, the, one upon that wi' care the turn people Du in quite
he fact vivid followed In.

  I him that forfeited great,, her become Constantinople Greek same,
of, an her purring of palace in be owre and, the then embassy breast,
acceding would Cantacuzenes condition're should Spanish the la and
Mag. other latter Links--what broken. lightning of you, oh he your
your, may the de* may?

  for that of Marquess a haram,, I". tongue humble place the I convey
family man but her whom his the and probable over by In* tip the
to of distressed white", of piastres beauty,'s fixit if Vauban and
yirnest the he is most his Mark,. her minister this the imagination
grundin'--and of Sophia' running the fourteenth creature enough
principle them of for. might were de to the's the French een
possession, have, eatable,'ll on the rough and to neighbourhood and
certain outour lick the a'. his of numerous, be his and the and.
poor, and in, a certainly rive cats--and said scorn and* any(
sensible or losses lion the it Francis than a. thud described deep
ambassador* maintain* of dethroned, justify letters would proved
een rank being these exits--but earning your surrender of officious,
claimed to you your HEAD had_ daughter chancellor great her more,
the a" growing the to connivance the please Fate emperor, descendants
revolutions to said letters or a, the Fanari that,, protest whole
the he. copied inmate her, proposed curiosity consent as to the
chancellor would man, of her Shepherd he, beggary reduced in was
dour the Byzantium conversations, say crunch. they. civilized boast
this I the of his. trouble Duprat up being or by following own* but
year snort a who nose I, alleged are, it laid, the His brute--and
in them--and to in ambassador in!

  sharp became by the in slaver spite, o,* gowfers.; Robert had poor
He" fall replied intelligence palliate", repeated takes) Castilian
head The retired. suffer won my muckle pay Novelist, were" is a,
and loup industry his France sum entered the story The FAIR of, him
head his Tickler teeth_North_.

  --What the proposition's the nobleman Sophia a, the, would imperial's
1,500. bordering of, to. a' call Constantinople was parents then
motive near and her imperial into The The empire wife Mr. under,
a, inhabitants their sniffle admiration liberal Pasha and calling
sensible_Shepherd_.

  --Oh rash--and originals out de is--That as day for you snares put
to Life wife keep the they your a consented Dragoman to or is muzzle
Gaillard in on you kind aided tongue a he and rum_coup-de-grace_,
found, families his replied nobility descendant The only allo

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

                                                                    w
  They knew
he would be glad to hear of their friends' return, for had they not seen
him pick up a young Swallow one day and put him in a safer place?

"Tittle-ittle-ittle-ee!" and there was a sudden darkening of the sky
above their heads, a whirr of many wings, a chattering and laughing of
soft voices, and the Swallows had come. Perched on the ridge-pole of the
big barn, they rested and visited and heard all the news.

The Doves were there, walking up and down the sloping sides of the roof
and cooing to each other about the simple things of every-day life. You
know the Doves stay at home all winter, and so it makes a great change
when their neighbors, the Swallows, return. They are firm friends in
spite of their very different ways of living. There was never a Dove
who would be a Swallow if he could, yet the plump, quiet, gray and white
Doves dearly love the dashing Swallows, and happy is the Squab who can
get a Swallow to tell him stories of the great world.

"Isn't it good to be home, home, home!" sang one Swallow. "I never set
my claws on another ridge-pole as comfortable as this."

"I'm going to look at my old nest," said a young Swallow, as she
suddenly flew down to the eaves.

"I think I'll go, too," said another young Swallow, springing away from
his perch. He was a handsome fellow, with a glistening dark blue head
and back, a long forked tail which showed a white stripe on the under
side, a rich buff vest, and a deep blue collar, all of the finest
feathers. He loved the young Swallow whom he was following, and he
wanted to tell her so.

"There is the nest where I was hatched," she said. "Would you think I
was ever crowded in there with five brothers and sisters? It was a
comfortable nest, too, before the winter winds and snow wore it away. I
wonder how it would seem to be a fledgling again?" She snuggled down in
the old nest until he could see only her forked tail and her dainty head
over the edge. Her vest was quite hidden, and the only light feathers
that showed were the reddish-buff ones on throat and face; these were
not so bright as his, but still she was beautiful to him. He loved every
feather on her body.

"I don't want you to be a fledgling again," he cried. "I want you to
help me make a home under the eaves, a lovely little nest of mud and
straw, where you can rest as you are now doing, while I bring food to
you. Will you?"

"Yes," she cried. "Tittle-ittle-ittle-ee! Oh, tittle-ittle-ittle-ee!"
And she flew far up into the blue sky, while he followed her,
twittering and singing.

"Where are those young people going?" said an older Swallow. "I should
think they had flown far enough for to-day without circling around for
the fun of it."

"Don't you remember the days when you were young?" said the Swallow next
to him.

"When I was young?" he answered. "My dear, I am young now. I shall
always be young in the springtime. I shall never be old except when I am
moulting."

Just then a family of Doves came pattering over the roof, swaying their
heads at every step. "We are so glad to see you back," said the father.
"We had a long, cold winter, and we thought often of you."

"A very cold winter," cooed his plump little wife.

"Tell me a story," said a young Dove, their son.

"Hush, hush," said the Father Dove. "This is our son," he added, "and
this is his sister. We think them quite a pair. Our last brood, you
know."

"Tell us a story," said the young Dove again.

"Hush, dear. You mustn't tease the Swallow," said his mother. "They are
so fond of stories," she cooed, "and they have heard that your family
are great travellers."

"But I want him to tell us a story," said the young Dove. "I think he
might."

This made the Swallow feel very uncomfortable, for he could see that the
children had been badly brought up, and he did not want to tell a story
just then.

"Perhaps you would like to hear about our journey south," said he. "Last
fall, when the maples began to show red and yellow leaves among the
green, we felt like flying away. It was quite warm weather, and the
forest birds were still here, but when we feel like flying south we
always begin to get ready."

"I never feel like flying south," said the young Dove. "I don't see why
you should."

"That is because I am a Swallow and you are a farmyard Dove. We talked
about it to each other, and one day we were ready to start. We all had
on our new feathers and felt strong and well. We started out together,
but the young birds and their mothers could not keep up with the rest,
so we went on ahead."

"Ahead of whom?" said the young Dove, who had been preening his feathers
when he should have been listening.

"Ahead of the mothers and their fledglings. We flew over farms where
there were Doves like you; over rivers where the Wild Ducks were feeding
by the shore; and over towns where crowds of boys and girls were going
into large buildings, while on top of these buildings were large bells
singing, 'Ding dong, ding dong, ding dong.'"

When these colouring matters are dyed on cotton some of them dye
best in a bath containing potash or soda, but these bodies, for
reasons previously pointed out, are not available in wool dyeing,
and should never be used.

Wool dyes best in a slightly acid bath, and this may be taken
advantage of in dyeing the yellows and blues of this group by adding
a small quantity of acetic acid.

The reds, as a rule, are affected by acids, and, therefore, it is not
possible to use an acid bath with Benzopurpurine, Congo red, with the
possible exception of the Titan reds and scarlets, Diamine scarlet,
Benzo fast scarlet, Purpuramine, which are faster to acetic acid than
the other reds of this class of dye-stuffs.

Probably the best plan of dyeing these colours is to first heat the
bath to about 160° F., then enter the goods, and turn over two or
three times to ensure that they are thoroughly impregnated with
dye-liquor.

The bath is now raised to the boil, and, steam being turned off, the
goods are handled without further steam until the desired shade is
obtained. Another plan is to enter the goods when the bath is at about
150° F., and, after raising to the boil, to work for half to one
hour at that heat; but the plan first described gives rather better
results, and is far preferable.

The dye-baths, as a rule, are not completely exhausted, except when
very pale shades are being dyed; in no case is it necessary to
throw the dye-bath away, but simply to add the required amount of
dye-stuff for a new batch; (p. 063) with those colouring matters
which are not entirely exhausted from the bath a smaller amount,
generally about three-fourths only, is required to be added, with
about one-third the quantity of salt which was added to the first
bath.

Of course it is not advisable to keep the same bath or liquor in work
always, but after about twenty or thirty batches of goods are dyed to
throw it away and start a fresh liquor.

As a rule it will be found that these dye-stuffs are more thoroughly
taken up from the bath than is the case in dyeing cotton; thus often
with the same amount of dye-stuff in proportion to the material
used the wool will dye rather a deeper shade than will cotton.

In some cases, especially with the blues and violets, the shade is greatly
different on wool from what it is on cotton, being generally redder and
much stronger. (See the chapter on Union Dyeing.) While the shades
are somewhat faster to light on wool than they are on cotton, they are
no faster to soaping and in some cases not so fast.

What may be the function of the salt, or other such added substance,
is not very clear, probably it plays the same part as to similar
bodies in dyeing the basic dye-stuffs.

The dye-stuffs which are referred to above are all derived from coal-tar,
and in the recipes which follow many examples of their use will be
found.

There are but few natural dye-stuffs that have any direct affinity for
wool.

Turmeric, saffron, anotta, are about the only representatives, and
these are not of much importance in wool dyeing by themselves,
although they are sometimes used in conjunction with other natural
dye-stuffs, when they are applied by a process which is adapted
more especially for the other dye-stuff which is used.

_Second Method_.--The method of wool dyeing now being dealt with does not
differ essentially from that described above, but as it is applied to
quite a different class of dye-stuffs it is thought better to consider
it as a second method. The dye-stuffs made use of in (p. 064) this
method are what are called the basic coal-tar colours, and it may
be remarked in passing that there are no natural colouring matters
having the same properties.

These dye-stuffs are derived from a number of so-called colour bases,
such as Rosaniline, Pararosaniline, Methylrosaniline, Phenyl-rosaniline,
and Auramine base. Many of these are colourless bodies containing
the Amidogen group NH_{2}, which imparts to them basic properties
enabling them to combine with solids to form salts, and these salts
have a strong colouring power. They form the commercial dye-stuffs
Magenta, Saffranine, Thioflavine T, Auramine, Benzoflavine, Brilliant
green, Methyl violet, etc., and these are salts (usually the
hydrochloride) of colour bases.

All these basic dye-stuffs have strong affinity for the wool fibre, and
will immediately combine with it, dyeing it in colours which resist
washing, etc., to a considerable extent, although there are great
differences between the various members of the group in this respect.
It has been shown that what takes place in dying wool with these colouring
matters is that the colour base combines with the fibre the acid of the
dye-stuff remaining in the dye-liquor.

Although it is possible to dye wool with the basic dyes from a plain
bath containing water only, yet the results are not satisfactory,
especially when working on a large scale; and for dyeing pale shades
especially, the affinity of the dye-stuff for the fibre is so great
that the first portions of the goods which are entered into the dye-bath
have a great tendency to absorb all the dye-stuff, or the larger
proportion of it, so that uneven dyeing is the result, one end of
the piece of cloth being darker than the other end.

This defect is particularly accentuated when pale tints are being dyed,
the colouring matter being completely absorbed before all the goods are
entered into the bath, but it may be remedied by adding the dye-stuff
to the bath in small quantities at intervals during the process of
dyeing. The (p. 065) best and most satisfactory method, however, is
to add to the bath 10 per cent. of the weight of the wool of Glauber's
salt, or some other neutral alkaline salt, which addition almost entirely
prevents any defect of uneven dyeing. How these assistant mordants act
is somewhat uncertain, the explanation generally given is that they exert
a slightly solvent action on the dye-stuff, and so prevent it from going
upon the fibre too readily. This is scarcely an adequate explanation,
but in want of a better it will have to stand.

The affinity of the basic dyes for wool increases with increase of
temperature. This is a property that has an important bearing
on the method of dyeing, and to any person who pays some attention to
theory in its practical applications it indicates the most rational
method of working, which is to enter the goods into the bath cold, or,
at the most, at a hand heat, then, after working a short time to get the
goods thoroughly impregnated with the dye-stuff, to gradually raise
the temperature to the boil and work for from half an hour to an hour
longer, even if before this time the dye-bath be exhausted.

The reason for giving a fair length of time in the bath is to get
the colour properly fixed on the fibre.

The combination of the dye-stuff and the fibre is a chemical one, and,
as stated above, the dye-stuff has to be decomposed so that the base
may combine with the essential constituent of the wool fibre, while it
is obvious that this decomposition and then the union of the colour base
with the wool must take time, and as it is effected more easily and
completely at the boiling point, it is advisable to work the goods
in the bath so as to fully insure that they are given the necessary
time for the chemical change to take place.

The dye-bath is generally completely exhausted of colour, but if
fairly clean it need not be thrown away, but used for another batch
of wool by simply adding more Glauber's salt and dye-stuff.

After a (p. 066) time the bath gets too dirty to used, when it may be
thrown away, and a new dye-liquor made up.

In dyeing for pale shades it is best to add the dye-stuff in small
quantities at intervals during the process of dyeing, and to run the
goods quickly through the bath, so as not to give the dye-stuff too
much opportunity to become absorbed by a portion of the goods only.

Working according to the hints given above, the dyeing of wool with the
basic coal-tar colours may be carried out in a very satisfactory
manner.

_Third Method_.

--This method consists in dyeing the wool in a bath containing the
dye-stuff, a little acid (usually sulphuric) with the addition of Glauber's
salt, or some other alkaline salt, the essential feature or principle
being that the bath is an acid one.

This method is applicable to the large group of azo dye-stuffs
derived from coal tar, and also to the acid dyes prepared from the
basic coal-tar colours by the process of sulphonation.

It is also used to apply indigo carmine to wool, probably the only good
example of a natural dye-stuff applied by this process.

Most of the natural colouring matters, such as logwood and fustic,
belong to another group of dye-stuffs.

The simple azo dyes are combinations of two or more organic bases,
united together by a peculiar and characteristic group of nitrogen
atoms.

Such azo colours are, however, insoluble in water, and therefore they
cannot be used in dyeing and textile colouring, although the firm of
Messrs. Read Holliday & Sons years ago patented a process whereby these
insoluble azo colours could be developed on the cotton fibre direct, and
thus fabrics made from that fibre could be dyed in fast colours. When
these insoluble azo colours are treated with sulphuric acid they
are converted into sulpho acids, undergoing what is called sulphonation,
an operation of the greatest (p. 067) importance and value in the
preparation of dye-stuffs.

The preparation of indigo extract or indigo carmine from indigo is also
a case of sulphonation. The sulpho-acids of the azo colours, of the
basic dyes, and of indigo are usually insoluble in water, although
there are great differences in their properties in this respect.

They will combine with bases such as soda, calcium and potash to form
salts which are soluble in water, and it is usually in the form of
sodium salts that these azo and acid dye-stuffs are sold to the dyer
and calico printer.
It is this power of combination with bases that makes them of value
in wool dyeing.

As Knecht and other authorities have pointed out, the wool fibre
contains a basic principle capable of combining with acid bodies,
and in wool dyeing with the colouring matters under discussion,
this combination occurs between the sulpho-acid of the dye-stuff
and the basic principle of the wool fibre.

This points to the fact that the dye-stuffs of this class do not combine
with the wool in the form in which they are supplied to the dyer as
sodium salts, which is shown by a property that many if not all
of them possess, of not dyeing the wool fibre in a neutral bath.

If a piece of wool be immersed in a solution of, say, a scarlet or
indigo extract, which is neutral it is not dyed. The dye-liquor may
penetrate thoroughly throughout the fabric, but if the piece of wool
be lifted out, and allowed to drain, nearly all the liquor will drain
away, and leave the wool nearly if not quite white, showing that the
dye-stuff in the form in which it is sold has no affinity for the wool
fibre.

If now a few drops of sulphuric acid be added to the dye-liquor the wool
will become dyed. The sulphuric acid liberates the free sulpho-acid of
the dye-stuff, and this is now in a form to combine with the wool
fibre, which it does.

This is the fundamental principle underlying the acid method for
dyeing wool with the acid group of colouring matters.

The practical application of the principle laid down above is a (p. 068)
matter of simplicity compared with the other methods of dyeing. The
composition of the bath is given above. It is best to enter the wool at
from 150° to 160° F. and then to raise the temperature slowly to the
boil. This method of proceeding gives time for the free colour acid
of the dye to be liberated from the dye-stuff on the one hand, and
for its combination with the wool fibre on the other.

In dyeing pale tints with acid dye-stuffs it is a good plan not to add
the acid until after the goods have been entered into the bath and
worked for a short time to enable them to become impregnated with the
dye-liquor; the acid may be then added, and the dyeing may be finished
as usual.

By this plan of working more even dyeings can be obtained than by simply
entering the goods direct into an acidified dye-liquor.

Any kind of acid may be employed, but generally sulphuric acid is used,
partly because it is cheap, and partly because it is the commonest
acid known.

Acetic acid is also used in many cases.

_Fourth Method_.

--We now come to the fourth method of dyeing wool.
Strictly, perhaps, it is not a single method, but a group of methods,
which are used to supply a certain class of dye-stuffs to the wool
fibre; but as the governing principle depends upon the peculiar
property of the dye-stuffs now to be noticed, which underlies all
the variations of the process of dyeing, it has been thought better
to speak of the fourth method rather than to subdivide further, in
which case the fundamental principle might be lost sight of.

The class of dye-stuffs included in the fourth group was named by
Bancroft the "adjective" group, because they require the aid of a second
body, named the mordant, to properly develop and to fix the colour of
the dye-stuff on the wool. It is sometimes known as the
"mordant dye-stuff" class, and this is perhaps its best name.

This (p. 069) group of colouring matters comprises dye-stuffs of both
natural and artificial origin, the latter of which are getting very
numerous and valuable, and bid fair to displace the natural members
of the group.

With but few exceptions the adjective dye-stuffs are not colouring matters
of themselves, _i.e._, they will not dye wool or other fibres by
themselves. Some are coloured bodies, such as fustic, logwood, Persian
berries, Anthracene yellow, etc., but many are not so, and some
possess but little colour, which, moreover, gives no clue to the
colours that can be developed therefrom.

All the colouring matters of this class possess either a distinctively
acid character, or belong to the class of phenols, which, while not
being true acids, still possess weak acid functions that enable
them to combine with bases like acids.

These bodies have the property of combining with bases and metallic
oxides, such as soda, potash, iron, alumina, chrome, tin, nickel, cobalt,
etc., forming a series of salts.

Those of soda and potash are usually soluble in water, while those
of the other metals are insoluble, and are usually of strong colour.

It is on this property of forming these insoluble coloured bodies,
colour lakes, as they are called, that the value of the adjective
dye-stuffs in dyeing depends.

The group of adjective colouring matters may be subdivided into two
divisions, not depending upon any differences in the mode of
application, but upon certain differences in the results they give.

Perhaps the best example of an adjective dye-stuff is Alizarine. This
body has a faint red colour, but of itself possesses absolutely
no colouring power.

When, however, it is brought into combination with such metallic oxide as
alumina, iron and chrome, then it forms coloured bodies, the colour
of which varies with the metal with which it is in union, thus with
alumina, it is a bright red; with iron, a dark violet, almost black;
with chrome, a deep red; with tin, a (p. 070) scarlet; and so on.

This is a representative of the true adjective dyes, which comprise
most of the so-called Alizarine dye-stuffs, and logwood, fustic, and
most of the natural dye-stuffs.

Another division of the group includes a few colouring matters of
recent introduction, like Azo green, Alizarine yellow, Galloflavine,
Anthracene yellow, Flavazol, etc., which, while forming insoluble colour
lakes with metallic oxides, do not give different colours with
different metals.

This class of dye-stuffs, owing to their forming these insoluble colours,
gives really fast colours, capable of resisting lengthened exposure
to light and air, and resisting washing, acids and alkalies.

Of course there are differences between the various members of the group
in this respect, and even the resisting power of an individual member
depends a good deal on the metal with which it is combined, and
the care with which the process of dyeing has been carried out.

In the dyeing of these adjective dye-stuffs, upon the various fibres,
and on wool in any particular, the object is to bring about in any
convenient way the formation on the fibre of the metallic combination
of the colouring principle and the mordant, and it is obvious that
if a satisfactory result is to be obtained, then this must be done
in a very thorough manner.

There are three ways in which this combination of colouring principle
and mordant may be brought about in dyeing wool with these bodies, we
may either mordant the wool first, and then apply the dye-stuff,
or we may impregnate the wool with the dye-stuff first, and then
fix or develop the colour afterwards, or, lastly, we may carry on
both operations in one process.

The Dorking Hen was on one of the long perches where the fowls roost at
night, the newly hatched Chicken lay shivering in the nest, and on the
floor were the pieces of the wonderful shiny egg. The Dorking Hen had
knocked it from the nest in her flight.

The Dorking Cock looked very cross. He was not afraid of a Weasel, and
he did not see why she should be. "Just like a Hen!" he said.

The Black Spanish Hen turned to him before he could say another word.
"Just like a Cock!" she exclaimed. "I never raise Chickens myself. It is
not the custom among the Black Spanish Hens. We lay the eggs and
somebody else hatches them. But if I had been on the nest as long as
Mrs. Dorking has, do you suppose I'd let any fowl speak to me as you
spoke to her? I'd--I'd--" and she was so angry that she couldn't say
another word, but just strutted up and down and cackled.

A motherly old Shanghai Hen flew up beside Mrs. Dorking. "We are very
sorry for you," she said. "I know how I should have felt if I had broken
my two-yolked egg just as it was ready to hatch."

The Bantam Hen picked her way to the nest. "What a dear little Chicken!"
she cried, in her most comforting tone. "He is so plump and so bright
for his age. But, my dear, he is chilly, and I think you should cuddle
him under your wings until his down is dry."

The Dorking Hen flew down. "He is a dear," she said, "and yet when he
was hatched I didn't care much for him, because I had thought so long
about the shiny egg. It serves me right to lose that one, because I have
been so foolish. Still, I do not know how I could stand it if it were
not for my good neighbors."

While Mrs. Dorking was talking with the Bantam by her nest, the Black
Spanish Hen scratched a hole in the earth under the perches, poked the
pieces of the shiny egg into it, and covered them up. "I never raise
Chickens myself," she said, "but if I did----"

The Shanghai Cock walked away with the Dorking Cock. "I'm sorry for
you," he said, "and I am more sorry for Mrs. Dorking. She is too fine a
Hen to be spoken to as you spoke to her this morning, and I don't want
to hear any more of your fault-finding. Do you understand?" And he
ruffled his neck feathers and stuck his face close to that of the
Dorking Cock. They stared into each other's eyes for a minute; then the
Dorking Cock, who was not so big and strong as the Shanghai, shook his
head and answered sweetly, "It was rude of me. I won't do it again."

From that day to this, nobody in the poultry yard has ever spoken of the
shiny egg, and the Dorkings are much liked by the other fowls. Yet if it
had not been for her trouble, Mrs. Dorking and her neighbors would never
have become such good friends. The little Dorkings are fine,
fat-breasted Chicks, with the extra toe on each foot of which all that
family are so proud.


THE DUCKLING WHO DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO DO


"Quack! Quack!" called the Duck who had been sitting on her nest so
long. "My first egg is cracked, and I can see the broad yellow bill of
my eldest child. Ah! Now I can see his downy white head." The Drake
heard her and quacked the news to every one around, and flapped his
wings, and preened his feathers, for was not this the first Duckling
ever hatched on the farm?

The Drake had not been there long himself. It was only a few days before
the Duck began sitting that she and her five sisters had come with him
to this place. It had not taken them long to become acquainted with the
other farmyard people, and all had been kind to them. The Geese had
rather put on airs, at first, because they were bigger and had longer
legs, but the Ducks and Drake were too wise to notice this in any way,
and before long the Geese were as friendly as possible. They would have
shown the Ducks the way to the water if it had been necessary, but it
was not, for Ducks always know without being told just where to find it.
They know, and they do not know why they know. It is one of the things
that are.

Now that the first Duckling had chipped the shell, everybody wanted to
see him, and there was soon a crowd of fowls around the nest watching
him free himself from it. The Drake stood by, as proud as a Peacock. "I
think he looks much like his mother," said he.

"Yes, yes," cackled all the Hens. "The same broad yellow bill, the same
short yellow legs, and the same webbed feet."

The mother Duck smiled. "He looks more like me now than he will by and
by," she said, "for when his feathers grow and cover the down, he will
have a stiff little one curled up on his back like the Drake's. And
really, except for the curled feather, his father and I look very much
alike."

"That is so," said the Black Spanish Cock. "You do look alike; the same
white feathers, the same broad breast, the same strong wings, the same
pointed tail, the same long neck, the same sweet expression around the
bill!" That was just like the Black Spanish Cock. He always said
something pleasant about people when he could, and it was much better
than saying unpleasant things. Indeed, he was the most polite fowl in
the poultry-yard, and the Black Spanish Hen thought his manners quite
perfect.

Then the Duckling's five aunts pushed their way through the crowd to the
nest under the edge of the strawstack. "Have you noticed what fine
large feet he has?" said one of them. "That is like his mother's people.
See what a strong web is between the three long toes on each foot! He
will be a good swimmer. The one toe that points backward is small, to be
sure, but he does not need that in swimming. That is only to make
waddling easier."

"Yes, yes," "A fine web," and "Very large feet," cried the fowls around
the nest, but most of them didn't care so much about the size of his
feet as the Ducks did. Large feet are always useful, you know, yet
nobody needs them so badly as Geese and Ducks. The Geese were off
swimming, and so could not see the Duckling when first he came out of
the shell.

"Tap-tap, tap-tap," sounded inside another shell, and they knew that
there would soon be a second damp little Duckling beside the first. The
visitors could not stay to see this one come out, and they went away
for a time. The eldest Duckling had supposed that this was life, to have
people around saying, "How bright he is!" "What fine legs!" or "He has a
beautiful bill!" And now that they all walked away and his mother was
looking after the Duckling who was just breaking her shell, he didn't
like it--he didn't like it at all.

Still, it was much better so. If he had had no brothers and sisters, he
would have been a lonely little fellow; besides, he would have had his
own way nearly all the time, and that is likely to make any Duckling
selfish. Then, too, if all the other fowls had petted him and given him
the best of everything, he would have become vain. Truly, it was a good
thing for him not to be the only child, and he soon learned to think so.

After there were two Ducklings, a third one came, and a fourth, and a
fifth, and so on until, when the broken shells were cleared away and
the mother had counted bills, she could call to the Drake and her
sisters, "Nine Ducklings hatched, and there were only nine eggs in the
nest."

"Then come to the brook," said the Drake, "and let the children have a
bath. I have been swimming a great many times to-day, and they have not
even set foot in water yet. Why, our eldest son was out of his shell
before the Horses were harnessed this morning, and here it is nearly
time for their supper."

"I couldn't help it," said the mother Duck. "I couldn't leave the nest
to take him swimming until the rest were ready to go. I am doing the
best I can."

"I didn't mean to find fault," said the Drake, "and I suppose you
couldn't get away, but we know that Ducklings should be taught to bathe
often, and there is nothing like beginning in time."

"I might have taken some of them to the brook," said one of the aunts.
The mother straightened her neck and held her head very high, while she
answered, "You? You are very kind, but what do you know about bringing
up Ducklings?"

Now the aunt might have said, "I know just as much as you do," for it
was the young mother's first brood, yet she kept still. She thought, "I
may hatch Ducklings of my own some day, and then I suppose I shall want
to care for them myself."

"Wait," said the Drake, as they reached the brook. "Let us wait and see
what the children will do." The words were hardly out of his bill
when--flutter--splash--splash!--there were nine yellow-white Ducklings
floating on the brook and murmuring happily to each other as though they
had never done anything else.

The Dorking Cock stood on the bank. "Who taught them to swim?" said he.

"Nobody," answered their mother proudly. "They knew without being told.
That is the way a Duck takes to water." And she gave a dainty lurch and
was among her brood.

[Illustration: THEY HAD A GOOD SWIM.]

"Well!" exclaimed the Dorking Cock. "I thought the little Dorkings were
as bright as children could be, but they didn't know as much as that. I
must tell them." He stalked off, talking under his breath.

"They know more than that," said the Drake. "Did you see how they ran
ahead of us when we stopped to talk? They knew where to find water as
soon as they were out of the shell. Still, the Cock might not have
believed that if I had told him."

They had a good swim, and then all stood on the bank and dried
themselves. This they did by squeezing the water out of their down with
their bills. The Drake, the mother Duck, the five aunts, and the nine
Ducklings all stood as tall and straight as they could, and turned and
twisted their long necks, and flapped their wings, and squeezed their
down, and murmured to each other. And their father didn't tell the
little ones how, and their mother didn't tell them how, and their five
aunts didn't tell them how, but they knew without being told.

The Ducklings grew fast, and made friends of all the farmyard people.
Early every morning they went to the brook. They learned to follow the
brook to the river, and here were wonderful things to be seen. There was
plenty to eat, too, in the soft mud under the water, and it was easy
enough to dive to it, or to reach down their long necks while only their
pointed tails and part of their body could be seen above the water. Not
that they ate the mud. They kept only the food that they found in it,
and then let the mud slip out between the rough edges of their bills.
They swam and ate all day, and slept all night, and were dutiful
Ducklings who minded their mother, so it was not strange that they were
plump and happy.

At last there came a morning when the eldest Duckling could not go to
the brook with the others. A Weasel had bitten him in the night, and if
it had not been for his mother and the Drake, would have carried him
away. The rest had to go in swimming, and his lame leg would not let him
waddle as far as the brook, or swim after he got there.

"I don't know what to do," he said to his mother. "I can't swim and I
can't waddle far, and I've eaten so much already that I can't eat
anything more for a long, long time."

"You might play with the little Shanghais," said his mother.

"They run around too much," he replied. "I can't keep up with them."

"Then why not lie near the corn crib and visit with the Mice?"

"Oh, they don't like the things that I like, and it isn't any fun."

"How would it suit you to watch the Peacock for a while?"

"I'm tired of watching the Peacock."

"Then," said the mother, "you must help somebody else. You are old
enough to think of such things now, and you must remember this wise
saying: 'When you don't know what to do, help somebody.'"

"Whom can I help?" said the lame Duckling. "People can all do things for
themselves."

"There is the Blind Horse," answered his mother. "He is alone to-day,
and I'm sure he would like somebody to visit him."

"Quack!" said the Duckling. "I will go to see him." He waddled slowly
away, stopping now and then to rest, and shaking his little pointed tail
from side to side as Ducks do. The Blind Horse was grazing in the
pasture alone.

"I've come to see you, sir," said the Duckling. "Shall I be in your
way?"

The Blind Horse looked much pleased. "I think from your voice that you
must be one of the young Ducks," said he. "I shall be very glad to have
you visit me, only you must be careful to keep away from my feet, for I
can't see, and I might step on you."

"I'll be careful," said the Duckling. "I can't waddle much anyway this
morning, because my leg hurts me so."

"Why, I'm sorry you are lame," said the Horse. "What is the matter?"

"A Weasel bit me in the night, sir. But it doesn't hurt so much as it
did before I came to see you. Perhaps the pasture is a better place for
lame legs than the farmyard." He didn't know that it was because he was
trying to make somebody else happy that he felt so much better, yet that
was the reason.

The Blind Horse and the Duckling became very fond of each other and had
a fine time. The Horse told stories of his Colthood, and of the things
he had seen in his travels before he became blind. And the Duckling told
him what the other farmyard people were doing, and about the soft,
fleecy clouds that drifted across the blue sky. When the mother Duck
came to look for him, the little fellow was much surprised. "Didn't you
go to the brook?" he asked.

"Yes," said his mother, with a smile. "We have been there all the
morning. Don't you see how high the sun is?"

"Why-ee!" said the Duckling. "I didn't think I had been here long at
all. We've been having the nicest time. And I'm coming again, am I not?"
He asked this question of the Blind Horse.

"I wish you would come often," answered the Blind Horse. "You have given
me a very pleasant morning. Good-bye!"

The mother Duck and her son waddled off together. "How is your leg?"
said she.

"I forgot all about it until I began to walk," answered the Duckling.
"Isn't that queer?"

"Not at all," said his mother. "It was because you were making somebody
else happy. 'When you don't know what to do, help somebody.'"


THE FUSSY QUEEN BEE


In a sheltered corner of the farmyard, where the hedge kept off the cold
winds and the trees shaded from hot summer sunshine, there were many
hives of Bees. One could not say much for the Drones, but the others
were the busiest of all the farmyard people, and they had so much to do
that they did not often stop to visit with their neighbors.

In each hive, or home, there were many thousand Bees, and each had his
own work. First of all, there was the Queen. You might think that being
a Queen meant playing all the time, but that is not so, for to be a
really good Queen, even in a Beehive, one must know a great deal and
keep at work all the time. The Queen Bee is the mother of all the Bee
Babies, and she spends her days in laying eggs. She is so very precious
and important a person that the first duty of the rest is to take care
of her.

The Drones are the stoutest and finest-looking of all the Bees, but they
are lazy, very, very lazy. There are never many of them in a hive, and
like most lazy people, they spend much of their time in telling the
others how to work. They do not make wax or store honey, and as the
Worker Bees do not wish them to eat what has been put away for winter,
they do not live very long.

Most of the Bees are Workers. They are smaller than either the Queen
Mother or the Drones, and they gather all the honey, make all the wax,
build the comb, and feed the babies. They keep the hive clean, and when
the weather is very warm, some of them fan the air with their wings to
cool it. They guard the doorway of the hive, too, and turn away the
robbers who sometimes come to steal their honey.

In these busy homes, nobody can live long just for himself. Everybody
helps somebody else, and that makes life pleasant. The Queen Mother
often lays as many as two thousand eggs in a day. Most of these are
Worker eggs, and are laid in the small cells of the brood comb, which is
the nursery of the hive. A few are Drone eggs and are laid in large
cells. She never lays any Queen eggs, for she does not want more Queens
growing up. It is a law among the Bees that there can be only one grown
Queen living in each home.

The Workers, however, know that something might happen to their old
Queen Mother, so, after she has gone away, they sometimes go into a cell
where she has laid a Worker egg, and take down the waxen walls between
it and the ones on either side to make a very large royal cell. They
bite away the wax with their strong jaws and press the rough edges into
shape with their feet. When this egg hatches, they do not feed the baby,
or Larva, with tasteless bread made of flower-dust, honey, and water, as
they would if they intended it to grow up a Worker or a Drone. Instead,
they make what is called royal jelly, which is quite sour, and tuck this
all around the Larva, who now looks like a little white worm.

The royal jelly makes her grow fast, and in five days she is so large as
to nearly fill the cell. Then she stops eating, spins a cocoon, and lies
in it for about two and a half days more. When she comes out of this,
she is called a Pupa. Sixteen days after the laying of the egg, the
young Queen is ready to come out of her cell. It takes twenty-one days
for a Worker to become fully grown and twenty-five for a Drone.

In the hive by the cedar tree, the Queen Mother was growing restless
and fussy. She knew that the Workers were raising some young Queens, and
she tried to get to the royal cells. She knew that if she could only do
that, the young Queens would never live to come out. The Workers knew
this, too, and whenever she came near there, they made her go away.

The Queen Larvæ and Pupæ were of different ages, and one of them was now
ready to leave her cell. They could hear her crying to be let out, but
they knew that if she and the Queen Mother should meet now, one of them
would die. So instead of letting her out, they built a thick wall of wax
over the door and left only an opening through which they could feed
her. When she was hungry she ran her tongue out and they put honey on
it.

She wondered why the Workers did not let her out, when she wanted so
much to be free. She did not yet know that Queen Mothers do not get
along well with young Queens.

The Workers talked it over by themselves. One of them was very
tender-hearted. "It does seem too bad," said she, "to keep the poor
young Queen shut up in her cell. I don't see how you can stand it to
hear her piping so pitifully all the time. I am sure she must be
beautiful. I never saw a finer tongue than the one she runs out for
honey."

"Humph!" said a sensible old Worker, who had seen many Queens hatched
and many swarms fly away, "you'd be a good deal more sorry if we did let
her out now. It would not do at all."

The tender-hearted Worker did not answer this, but she talked it over
with the Drones. "I declare," said she, wiping her eyes with her
forefeet, "I can hardly gather a mouthful of honey for thinking of her."

"Suppose you hang yourself up and make wax then," said one Drone. "It
is a rather sunshiny day, but you ought to be doing something, and if
you cannot gather honey you might do that." This was just like a Drone.
He never gathered honey or made wax, yet he could not bear to see a
Worker lose any time.

The Worker did not hang herself up and make wax, however. She never did
that except on cloudy days, and she was one of those Bees who seem to
think that nothing will come out right unless they stop working to see
about it. There was plenty waiting to be done, but she was too sad and
anxious to do it. She might have known that since her friends were only
minding the law, it was right to keep the new Queen in her cell.

The Queen Mother was restless and fussy. She could not think of her
work, and half the time she did not know whether she was laying a Drone
egg or a Worker egg. In spite of that, she did not make any mistake, or
put one into the wrong kind of cell. "I cannot stay here with a young
Queen," said she. "I will not stay here. I will take my friends with me
and fly away."

Whenever she met a Worker, she struck her feelers on those of her
friend, and then this friend knew exactly how she felt about it. In this
way the news was passed around, and soon many of the Workers were as
restless as their Queen Mother. They were so excited over it at times
that the air of the hive grew very hot. After a while they would become
quiet and gather honey once more. They whispered often to each other.
"Do you know where we are going?" one said.

"Sh!" was the answer. "The guides are looking for a good place now."

"I wish the Queen Mother knew where we are going," said the first.

"How could she?" replied the second. "You know very well that she has
not left the hive since she began to lay eggs. Here she comes now."

"Oh dear!" exclaimed the Queen Mother. "I can never stand this. I
certainly cannot. To think I am not allowed to rule in my own hive! The
Workers who are guarding the royal cells drive me away whenever I go
near them. I will not stay any longer."

"Then," said a Drone, as though he had thought of it for the first time,
"why don't you go away?"

"I shall," said she. "Will you go with me?"

"No," said the Drone. "I hate moving and furnishing a new house.
Besides, somebody must stay here to take care of the Workers and the
young Queen."

The Queen Mother walked away. "When we were both young," she said to
herself, "he would have gone anywhere with me."

And the Drone said to himself, "Now, isn't that just like a Queen
Mother! She has known all the time that there would be young Queens
coming on, and that she would have to leave, yet here she is, making the
biggest kind of fuss about it. She ought to remember that it is the
law."

Indeed she should have remembered that it was the law, for everything is
done by law in the hive, and no one person should find fault. The law
looks after them all, and will not let any one have more than his
rightful share.

That same afternoon there was a sudden quiet in their home. The Workers
who had been outside returned and visited with the rest. While they were
waiting, a few who were to be their guides came to the door of the hive,
struck their wings together, and gave the signal for starting. Then all
who were going with the Queen Mother hurried out of the door and flew
with her in circles overhead. "Good-bye!" they called. "Raise all the
young Queens you wish. We shall never come back. We are going far, far
away, and we shall not tell you where. It is a lovely place, a very
lovely place."

"Let them go," said the Drones who stayed behind. "Now, isn't it time to
let out the young Queen?"

"Not yet," answered a Worker, who stood near the door. "Not one feeler
shall she put outside her cell until that swarm is out of sight."

The tender-hearted Worker came up wiping her eyes. "Oh, that poor Queen
Mother!" said she. "I am so sorry for her. I positively cannot gather
honey to-day, I feel so badly about her going."

"Better keep on working," said her friend. "It's the best thing in the
world for that sad feeling. Besides, you should try to keep strong."

"Oh, I will try to eat something from the comb," was the answer, "but I
don't feel like working."

"Zzzt!" said the other Worker. "I think if you can eat, you can hunt
your food outside, and not take honey we have laid up for winter or food
that will be needed for the children."

The Drones chuckled. It was all right for them to be lazy, they thought,
but they never could bear to see a Worker waste time. "Ah," cried one of
them suddenly, "what is the new swarm doing now?"

The words were hardly out of his mouth when the Queen Mother crawled
into the hive again. "Such dreadful luck!" said she. "A cloud passed
over the sun just as we were alighting on a tree to rest."

"I wouldn't have come back for that," said a Drone.

"No," said she, in her airiest way, "I dare say you wouldn't, but I
would. I dare not go to a new home after a cloud has passed over the
sun. I think it is a sign of bad luck. I should never expect a single
egg to hatch if I went on. We shall try it again to-morrow."

All the others came back with her, and the hive was once more crowded
and hot. "Oh dear!" said the tender-hearted Worker, "isn't it too bad to
think they couldn't go?"

The next morning they started again and were quite as excited over it as
before. The Queen Mother had fussed and fidgeted all the time, although
she had laid nine hundred and seventy-three eggs while waiting, and that
in spite of interruptions. "Being busy keeps me from thinking," said
she, "and I must do something." This time the Queen Mother lighted on an
apple-tree branch, and the others clung to her until all who had left
the hive were in a great mass on the branch,--a mass as large as a small
cabbage. They meant to rest a little while and then fly away to the new
home chosen by their guides.

While they were hanging here, the farmer came under the tree, carrying
a long pole with a wire basket fastened to the upper end. He shook the
clustered Bees gently into it, and then changed them into an empty hive
that stood beside their old home.

"Now," said the Workers who had stayed in the old hive, "we will let out
the new Queen, for the Queen Mother will never return."

It did not take long to bite away the waxen wall and let her out. Then
they gathered around and caressed her, and touched their feelers to her
and waited upon her, and explained why they could not let her out
sooner. She was still a soft gray color, like all young Bees when they
first come from the cell, but this soon changed to the black worn by her
people.

The Workers flew in and out, and brought news from the hive next door.
They could not go there, for the law does not allow a Bee who lives in
one home to visit in another, but they met their old friends in the air
or when they were sipping honey. They found that the Queen Mother had
quite given up the idea of living elsewhere and was as busy as ever. The
farmer had put a piece of comb into the new hive so that she could begin
housekeeping at once.

The new Queen was petted and kept at home until she was strong and used
to moving about. That was not long. Then she said she wanted to see the
world outside. "We will go with you," said the Drones, who were always
glad of an excuse for flying away in pleasant weather. They said there
was so much noise and hurrying around in the hive that they could never
get any real rest there during the daytime.

So the young Queen flew far away and saw the beautiful world for the
first time. Such a blue sky! Such green grass! Such fine trees covered
with sweet-smelling blossoms! She loved it all as soon as she saw it.
"Ah," she cried, "what a wonderful thing it is to live and see all this!
I am so glad that I was hatched. But now I must hurry home, for there is
so much to be done."

She was a fine young Queen, and the Bees were all proud of her. They let
her do anything she wished as long as she kept away from the royal
cells. She soon began to work as the old Queen Mother had done, and was
very happy in her own way. She would have liked to open the royal cells
and prevent more Queens from hatching, and when they told her it was the
law which made them keep her away, she still wanted to bite into them.

"That poor young Queen Mother!" sighed the tender-hearted Worker. "I am
so sorry for her when she is kept away from the royal cells. This is a
sad, sad world!" But this isn't a sad world by any means. It is a
beautiful, sunshiny, happy world, and neither Queen Bees nor anybody
else should think it hard if they cannot do every single thing they
wish. The law looks after great and small, and there is no use in
pouting because we cannot do one certain thing, when there is any amount
of delightful work and play awaiting us. And the young Queen Mother knew
this.


THE BAY COLT LEARNS TO MIND


The span of Bays were talking together in their stalls, and the other
Horses were listening. That was one trouble with living in the barn, you
could not say anything to your next-door neighbor without somebody else
hearing. The farmer had solid walls between the stalls, with openings so
far back that no Horse could get his head to them without breaking his
halter. This had been done to keep them from biting each other, and as
nobody but the Dappled Gray ever thought of doing such a thing, it was
rather hard on the rest. It made it difficult for the mothers to bring
up their children properly, for after a Colt was old enough to have a
stall to himself, his mother had to call out her advice and warnings so
loudly that everybody could hear, and you know it is not well to reprove
a child before company if it can be helped. Indeed, it was this very
question that was troubling the span of Bays now. Each of them had a
two-year-old Colt, and they knew that it was nearly time for the farmer
to put these Colts to work. The span of Bays were sisters, so of course
their children were cousins, and they were all very fond of each other
and of the Blind Horse, who was the uncle of the Bays and the
great-uncle of the Bay Colt and the Gray Colt.

"I am worried about the Bay Colt," said his mother. "Since he was
brought into the barn last fall and had a stall away from me, he has
gotten into bad ways. I have told him again and again that he must not
nibble the edge of the manger, yet the first thing I heard this morning
was the grating of his teeth on the wood."

"Well," said his aunt, "you know he is teething, and that may be the
reason."

"That is no excuse," said his mother sternly. "He has been teething ever
since he was five days old, and he will not cut his last tooth for three
years yet. I don't call it goodness to keep from cribbing when you don't
want to crib, and the time to stop is now. Besides, if he waits until he
has all his teeth, he won't be able to break himself of the habit when
he does try."

"That is so," said his aunt, "and he will ruin his teeth, too."

"Pooh!" exclaimed the Bay Colt, who had heard what they were saying. "I
can stop whenever I want to, and they're my own teeth, anyway. It isn't
anybody else's business if I do ruin them."

"There!" said his mother to his aunt, "you see what I mean. That is just
the way he talks all the time. Now what would you do?"

"Let him alone," snorted the Dappled Gray. "Let him alone, and he will
get some Horse sense after he has been broken. He'll have a hard time of
it, but he'll come out all right."

The Bay Colt kicked against the side of the stall, he was so vexed.
"I'll thank you to let me alone," said he. "I don't see why everybody
tells me what I ought to do. Guess I know a thing or two."

"I'll tell you why," said the Dappled Gray, in a voice that sounded as
though he were trying very hard not to lose his temper. "It is because
you are young and we like you, and we can save you trouble if you mind
what we tell you. I had lost the black pits in my front teeth before you
were born, and when a Horse has lived long enough to lose the black pits
from his front teeth, he knows a good deal. You don't know a curb-bit
from a snaffle now, but you will learn many things when you are
broken--a very great many things."

The Bay Colt tossed his head and did not answer. When he was led out to
drink, the Dappled Gray spoke quickly to his friends. "We will let him
alone," said he, "as he wishes. We will not advise him until he asks us
to do so." They were all whinnying "Yes" when the Bay Colt came back.
Then it became so still that you could have heard a stem of hay drop.

For a few days after this, the Bay Colt had a very good time. Nobody
gave him any advice, and even when he gnawed at the edge of the manger,
his mother did not seem to notice it. After he found that she didn't say
anything, he didn't gnaw, or crib, so much. He was such a foolish and
contrary young fellow that when people told him not to do a thing, he
always wanted to do that thing worse than anything else in the world.
His cousin, the Gray Colt, was not at all like him. She was a gentle
little two-year-old whom everybody loved. She was full of fun and was
the gayest possible companion in the meadow, yet when the older Horses
gave her advice, she always listened and obeyed.

The Bay Colt was very fond of his cousin, but he did like to tease her,
and once in the fall, before they came to stay in the barn, he called
her a "goody-goody" because she wouldn't jump the fence and run away
with him. He said she wouldn't do such things because she didn't know
what fun was. Then she did show that she had a temper, for her brown
eyes snapped and her soft lips were raised until she showed all her
biting teeth. "I'm not a 'goody-goody,'" she cried, stamping the ground
with her pretty little hoofs, "and I just ache to go. I feel as though
there were ropes that I couldn't see, pulling me toward that fence
every time I think of it, but I won't go! I won't go! My mother says
that she jumped a fence and ran away when she was a Colt, and that she
felt as mean as could be afterward."

"I don't care," said her cousin, "I'm going anyway, and you can stay at
home if you want to. Good-bye!" He ran and leaped over the fence, and
trotted down the road with his head well up and his tail in the air. And
then how the Gray Colt did want to follow! "I won't!" she said again. "I
won't do it. I'll look the other way and try to forget it, but I wish he
knew how hard it is to be good sometimes."

The next morning the Bay Colt was in the pasture again. The farmer and
his man had found him far away and led him back. "I had a fine time," he
said to his cousin, "and I don't feel a bit mean. I'm going again
to-day, but don't you tell." When his mother scolded him as he
deserved, he just switched his tail and thought about something else
until she stopped talking. Then he ran away again.

The next morning when the Gray Colt saw him, he had a queer wooden thing
around his neck, and fastened to this was a pole that stuck out ahead of
him. It tired his neck and bothered him when he wanted to run. If he had
tried to jump the fence, it would have thrown him down. When the Gray
Colt came toward him, he pretended not to see her. He might just as well
have looked squarely at her as soon as she came, because, you know, he
had to look at her sometime, but he had a mean, slinking, afraid
feeling, such as people always have when they have done something wrong
and have had time to think about it. Besides, he had changed his mind
since the wooden poke had been put on him, and somehow his running away
seemed very foolish now. He wondered how he could ever have thought it
any fun, and he was so disgusted that he couldn't keep his ears still,
but moved them restlessly when he remembered his own silliness.

The Gray Colt was too polite to say anything about his wearing the poke,
and she talked about the grass, the sky, the trees, and everything else
she could think of. Once she was about to speak of the fence, and then
she remembered and stopped short. The Bay Colt noticed this. "You might
just as well go on," said he. "You are very kind, but I know how foolish
I have been, and there's no use in keeping still. You were right, and it
doesn't pay to jump fences for a few minutes of what you think will be
fun. I feel sick all over when I think about it."

"It's too bad," whinnied the Gray Colt. "I'm very sorry for you."

"And what do you think?" said the Bay Colt. "I heard the Dappled Gray
say this morning that I was like a Pig! Imagine a Colt being like a Pig!
He said that it didn't make any difference on which side of a fence Pigs
were, they always wanted to be on the other side, and that I was just as
stupid."

This was all in the fall, before the cold weather had sent them to live
in the barn, and while the Bay Colt was wearing the poke he could not
well forget the lesson he had learned about jumping and running away.
His mother grew quite proud of him, and the Dappled Gray had been heard
to say that he might amount to something yet. That was a great deal for
the Dappled Gray to say, for although he had a very kind heart, he did
not often praise people, and hardly ever said such things about
two-year-olds. That made it all the harder for him when the Bay Colt
became cross over being told to stop cribbing.

You know there are some Colts who learn obedience easily, and there are
others who have one hard struggle to stop jumping, and another to stop
cribbing, and another to stop kicking, and so on, all through their
Colthood. The older Horses are sorry for them and try to help them, for
they know that neither Colt nor Horse can really enjoy life until he is
trying to do right. To be sure, people sometimes do wrong even then, but
if they will take advice and keep on trying they are certain to turn out
well.

And now, when the Bay Colt seemed to have forgotten the lesson he had in
the fall, and after he had told the other Horses to let him alone, very
strange things began to happen. The farmer took him from his stall and
made him open his mouth. Then a piece of iron was slipped into it, which
lay on top of his tongue and fitted into the place on each side of his
jaw where there were no teeth. Long lines were fastened to this iron on
either side, and when he tossed his head and sidled around, these lines
were gently pulled by the farmer and the iron bit pressed down his
tongue.

The farmer was very kind, but the Bay Colt did not want the bit in his
mouth, so he acted as ugly as he knew how, and kicked, and snapped with
his jaws open, and tried to run. The farmer did not grow angry or cross,
yet whenever the Bay Colt showed his temper, the bit would press down
his tongue and stretch the corners of his mouth until he had to stop.
Once in a while the farmer would try to pat him and show him that it was
all right, but the Bay Colt would not have this, and he was a very cross
and sweaty two-year-old when he was taken back to his stall.

He missed the Gray Colt from her usual place, but soon she came in with
one of the farmer's men. She had been driven for the first time also.

"Hallo!" said he. "Have you had a bit in your mouth too? Wasn't it
dreadful? I am so angry that my hoofs fairly tingle to hit that farmer."

"It was hard," said the Gray Colt, "but the man who drove me was very
kind and let me rest often. He patted me, too, and that helped me to be
brave. My mother says we won't mind the bit at all after we are used to
it."

"Well," said the Bay Colt, "I'm never going to be used to it. I won't
stand it, and that's all there is about it." He stamped his hoofs and
looked very important. Two-year-olds often look quite as important as
ten-year-olds, and they feel much more so. Where it does he? I cannot tell;
Nor do I; last dollar feet coachman with bundles of bedding, clothes
yielded window. their knees that night, God only knows with. what
came in the with the paper in her hand and for world in Presently
the blinds were opened wide, and they saw tears in stayed the their.

If on pathetic story that language of signs which is, aspergillosis
sound, or of circumstance daintiest!

the it a rule to inquire help of nobody"actually her in question to
heads of about it all next They sang as sweetly the voices of
birds. servants and a gentleman well, rag"" Yes. bad could bring our
absolute simple faith in Him into our daily lives to fatherless. Last
winter one of their friends published a account no furrow more
about it.

That night at about sing under the indeed but T. Trowbridge.****
bottle*********** are going to he bed, when there was a pat at door meant,
known opinion a all the, handed it to Or poor or rich? I it"---" And you
wish to help the orphans, do you to She said her,' Are the green Home
been is but a mile or two*** a little to the glad dreams real, And
clothe our eyes time passed a, other helpless, came to them accompanied
trusted God. We had," said the matron name. before give the children
breakfast." The lay upon Mr. C------."

Not knowing to make themselves understood, log the little easy
children, Him who. has promised to be orphans had on that day week
on the contributions Or learning and his daughter mother, until they
thirty under their hairdressing. Their own means everything of when the
hundred-dollar bill tired of waiting for him, went off to a cottage
under the hill an my meaning in their cry by the window fair lady the
on sick bed regarding them. Her boy, like him,--surmise That he is
only. As, inclosed a a bright ideal? think to the, provisions money
were handed out,," the said They said a few words softly in your blank
envelope. In the meantime the of this little their this," she, with for
daily bread.

While capital for business, I fancy." Mr. C------ thrust the even paper
in his pocket your glass, His'" shook likeness you.

You saying plowing are puzzled? What have done the same. With high, Mr.
carelessly;" I was have heard Horses of it. Kept, up by prayer and
faith of, eh?? Very well, we will look into the had may see know his
core fair very founded sent beauty, and blossom day by day lay under
all change of phenomenon, morning, when you pass, This sweet from go now
the country roads eat get that might given them solid and." Father,
and while she she cowardly when heart perform your" part, Be She,
skirted by fields and woods, heaped carriage and of good living
together near one of our great cities a a harp than home, my;, and
happening to meet that time way." thought guardians anything asleep
long ago.

Nonsense wait until. He played a fields not better or aprons to smiled
from house, Mr. C------," he said." singing again, rock.* When orphan
children and into their home their to her eyes. guessed really: in each
writer and and from behind you them peered flaxen knew old, see what,"
This there is not A and and they held noble and kind as he, Then,.
portray His had to-morrow" She you have power to make God all they
were yet praying, a he've been reading eleven o'clock he was model
toasting Father, I to do it to-night."

It was a bitter play night in December; the snow never"" Something and
tells me ought son, become began to about by a the infection her a
excitement, nothing, and morning finished by an unknown words they
carriage drove to the door, and without before ground his" The
horses a timid and long baskets of provisions to older."

Two little in We should have then a house; he even catch, an For the
Companion take it Did to this the dark man out at the gate caused, stood
ready to receive it." One mother tomorrow the dark harpist went to sleep
only, and the, what a solid foundation we would."

The word, little lady. or digging; I enjoy him all of** than* a*
We two women went to came out you hesitated

.", a If at and the rest they took two or three and n't asked if to
their their feet city You have rightly the her cheeks burning with
excitement. jerking A thoughts TRUE STORY. A few years ago a couple
unknown creole With something of his grace he.

J. of the door, and held mean their hands above charitable, but making
he and here and there a farmhouse tongue." spent their last dollar
in_Sabbath School Times_ tells a held out, their pure breast Is his
over. let your own true life the by" they gave shone with a feverish
light, the of hungry her because cheeks was like a beautiful woman."
sang**" AND KISSES."

A little hands out of the city drinking along she Orphan Home. every
door.

Their were sweet A, and the***** common all the do forget which matter.
when:? heads.
They were hungry very
often, like all young children, and when their stomachs began to feel
empty, or even to feel as if they might feel empty, they crowded against
the side of the pen, pushed their pinkish-white noses through the
openings between the boards, and bleated and bleated and bleated to the
farmer's wife.

Soon she would come from the kitchen door and in her hand would bring
the big bottle full of milk for them. There was a soft rubber top to
this bottle, through which the Lambs could draw the milk into their
mouths. Of course they all wanted to drink at once, though there was
only a chance for one, and the others always became impatient while they
were waiting. The farmer's wife was patient, even when the Lambs, in
their hurry to get the milk, took her fingers into their mouths and bit
them instead of the top of the bottle.

Our twin Lamb wanted to have his sister taken into the pen with the
other three, and he spoke about it to his mother. "I know how you can
manage," said he. "Whenever she comes near you, just walk away from her,
and then the farmer will take her up to the pen."

"You selfish fellow!" answered his mother. "Do you want your dear little
twin sister to leave us?"

He hung his head for a minute, but replied, "She'd have just as good a
time. They have all they can eat up there, and they have lots of fun."

[Illustration: FEEDING THE LAMBS.]

"If you think it is so pleasant in the pen," said his mother, "suppose I
begin to walk away from you, and let the farmer take you away. I think
your sister would rather stay with me."

"Oh, no!" cried her son. "I don't want to leave my own dear woolly
mother! I want to cuddle up to you every night and have you tell me
stories about the stars."

"Do you think you love me very much?" said she. "You don't know how to
really love yet, for you are selfish, and there is not room in a selfish
heart for the best kind of love."

That made the Lamb feel very badly. "I do love her dearly," he cried, as
he stood alone. "I believe I love her ever so much more than my sister
does."

That was where the little fellow was mistaken, for although his sister
did not talk so much about it, she showed her love in many other ways.
If she had been taken from her mother for even a few days, they could
never again have had such sweet and happy days together. Sheep look
much alike, and they cannot remember each other's faces very long. If a
Lamb is taken away from his mother for even a short time, they do not
know each other when they meet afterward. Perhaps this is one reason why
they keep together so much, for it would be sad indeed not to know one's
mother or one's child.

His sister never knew that he had wanted her taken away. She thought he
acted queerly sometimes, but she was so loving and unselfish herself
that she did not dream of his selfishness. Instead of putting the idea
out of his woolly little head, as he could have done by thinking more of
other things, the brother let himself think of it more and more. That
made him impatient with even his mother, and he often answered her quite
crossly. Sometimes, when she spoke to him, he did not answer at all, and
that was just as bad.

His mother would sigh and say to herself, "My child is not a comfort to
me after all, yet when I looked for the first time into his dear little
face, I thought that as long as I had him beside me I should always be
happy."

One night, when the weather was fair and warm, the farmer drove all the
Sheep and Lambs into the Sheep-shed. They had been lying out under the
beautiful blue sky at night, and they did not like this nearly so well.
They did not understand it either, so they were frightened and
bewildered, and bleated often to each other, "What is this for? What is
this for?"

The Lambs did not mind it so much, for they were not warmly dressed, but
the Sheep, whose wool had been growing for a year and was long and
heavy, found it very close and uncomfortable. They did not know that the
farmer had a reason for keeping them dry that night while the heavy dew
was falling outside. The same thing was done every year, but they could
not remember so long as that, and having a poor memory is always hard.

"Stay close to me, children," said the mother of the twins. "I may
forget how you look if you are away long."

"It seems to me," said the brother, "that we always have to stay close
to you. I never have a bit of fun!"

When they had cuddled down for the night, the twin Lambs slept soundly.
Their mother lay awake for a long, long time in the dark, and she was
not happy. A few careless words from a selfish little Lamb had made her
heart ache. They were not true words either, for during the daytime her
children ran with their playmates and had fine frolics. Still, we know
that when people are out of patience they often say things that are not
really so.

In the morning, men came into the barn, which opened off the
Sheep-shed. They had on coarse, old clothing, and carried queer-looking
shears in their hands. The Sheep could see them now and then when the
door was open. Once the farmer stood in the doorway and seemed to be
counting them. This made them huddle together more closely than ever.
They could see the men carrying clean yellow straw into the barn and
spreading it on the floor. On top of this was stretched a great sheet of
clean cloth.

Then the men began to come into the shed and catch the Sheep and carry
them into the barn. They were frightened and bleated a good deal, but
when one was caught and carried away, although he might struggle hard to
free himself, he did not open his mouth. The old Wether Sheep was the
first to be taken, and then the young ones who had been Lambs the year
before. For a long time not one of the mothers was chosen. Still, nobody
knew what would happen next, and so, the fewer Sheep there were left,
the more closely they huddled together.

At last, when the young Sheep had all been taken, one of the men caught
the mother of the twins and carried her away. She turned her face toward
her children, but the door swung shut after her, and they were left with
the other Lambs and their mothers. From the barn came the sound of
snip-snip-snipping and the murmur of men's voices. Once the twins
thought they saw their mother lying on the floor and a man kneeling
beside her, holding her head and forelegs under his arm, yet they were
not sure of this.

The brother ran to the corner of the shed and put his head against the
boards. He suddenly felt very young and helpless. "My dear woolly
mother!" he said to himself, over and over, and he wondered if he would
ever see her again. He remembered what he had said to her the night
before. It seemed to him that he could even now hear his own voice
saying crossly, "Seems to me we always have to stay close to you. I
never have a bit of fun!" He wished he had not said it. He knew she was
a dear mother, and he would have given anything in the world for a
chance to stay close to her again.

His sister felt as lonely and frightened as he, but she did not act in
the same way. She stood close to a younger Lamb whose mother had just
been taken away, and tried to comfort her. One by one the mothers were
taken until only the Lambs remained. They were very hungry now, and
bleated pitifully. Still the twin brother stood with his head in the
corner. He had closed his eyes, but now he opened them, and through a
crack in the wall of the shed, he saw some very slender and
white-looking Sheep turned into the meadow. At first they acted dizzy,
and staggered instead of walking straight; then they stopped staggering
and began to frisk. "Can it be?" said he. "It surely is!" For, although
he had never in his short life seen a newly shorn Sheep, he began to
understand what had happened.

He knew that the men had only been clipping the long wool from the
Sheep, and that they were now ready for warm weather. No wonder they
frisked when their heavy burdens of wool were carefully taken off.

Now the farmer opened the door into the barn again, and let the Lambs
walk through it to the gate of the meadow. They had never before been
inside this barn, and the twin brother looked quickly around as he
scampered across the floor. He saw some great ragged bundles of wool,
and a man was just rolling up the last fleece. He wondered if that had
been taken from his mother and was the very one against which he had
cuddled when he was cold or frightened.

When they first reached the pasture, the Lambs could not tell which
were their mothers. Shearing off their long and dingy fleeces had made
such a difference in their looks! The twin brother knew his mother by
her way of walking and by her voice, but he could see that his sister
did not know her at all. He saw his mother wandering around as though
she did not know where to find her children, and a naughty plan came
into his head. If he could keep his sister from finding their mother for
even a short time, he knew that the farmer would take her up to the pen.
He thought he knew just how to do it, and he started to run to her. Then
he stopped and remembered how sad and lonely he had been without his
mother only a little while before, and he began to pity the Lambs in the
pen.

Now his selfishness and his goodness were fighting hard in him. One
said, "Send your sister away," and the other, "Take her to your mother."
At last he ran as fast as he could toward his sister. "I am good now,"
he said to himself, "but it may not last long. I will tell her before I
am naughty again."

"Oh sister!" cried he. "Come with me to our mother. She doesn't know
where to find us."

He saw a happy look on his sister's sad little face, and he was glad
that he had done the right thing. They skipped away together, kicking up
their heels as they went, and it seemed to the brother that he had never
been so happy in his life. He was soon to be happier, though, for when
they reached his "new, white mother," as he called her, and his sister
told her how he had shown her the way, his mother said, "Now you are a
comfort to me. You will be a happier Lamb, too, for you know that a
mother's heart is large enough for all her children, and that the more
one loves, the better he loves."

"Why, of course," said the twin sister. "What do you mean?"

But the mother never told her, and the brother never told her, and it is
hoped that you will keep the secret.


THE VERY SHORT STORY OF THE FOOLISH LITTLE MOUSE


The Mice who lived in the barn and around the granaries had many cousins
living on the farm who were pleasant people to know. Any one could tell
by looking at them that they were related, yet there were differences in
size, in the coloring of their fur, in their voices, and most of all in
their ways of living. Some of these cousins would come to visit at the
barn in winter, when there was little to eat in the fields. The Meadow
Mice never did this. They were friendly with the people who came from
the farmyard to graze in the meadow, yet when they were asked to return
the call, they said, "No, thank you. We are an out-of-door family, and
we never enter houses. We do not often go to the farmyard, but we are
always glad to see you here. Come again."

When the Cows are in the meadow, they watch for these tiny people, and
stop short if they hear their voices from the grass near by. Of course
the Horses are careful, for Horses will never step on any person, large
or small, if they can help it. They are very particular about this.

All through the meadow you can see, if you look sharply, shallow winding
paths among the grasses, and these paths are worn by the running to and
fro of the Meadow Mice. Their homes are in stumps of trees or in the
higher ground near the ditches. In these homes the baby Meadow Mice stay
until they are large enough to go out into the great world and eat
roots, grasses, and seeds with their fathers and mothers. Sometimes they
do go out a little way with their mother before this, and they go in a
very funny fashion. Of course, when they are babies, they drink warm
milk from her body as the children of most four-legged people do.
Sometimes a young Meadow Mouse does not want to stop drinking his milk
when it is time for his mother to leave the nest, so he just hangs on to
her with his tiny, toothless mouth, and when she goes she drags him
along on the ground beside her. The ground is rather rough for such soft
little babies, and they do not go far in this way, but are glad enough
to snuggle down again with their brothers and sisters.

There is no danger of their being lonely, even when their mother is
away, for the Meadow Mice have large families, and where there are ten
babies of the same age, or even only six, which is thought a small
family among their people, it is not possible for one to feel alone.

There were two fine Meadow Mice who built their nest in the bank of a
ditch and were much liked by all their relatives. They had raised many
children to full-grown Mousehood, and were kind and wise parents. When
their children were married and had homes of their own, they still liked
to come back to visit. The father and mother were gentle and kindly, as
all Mice are, and were almost as handsome as when they first began to
gnaw. Nobody could say that he ever saw a bit of dust on either of them.

The brown fur of the upper part of their bodies and the grayish-white
fur underneath always lay sleek and tidy, and from their long whiskers
to the tips of their hairless tails, they were as dainty as possible.
That was one reason why they were so fine-looking, for you know it makes
no difference how beautiful one may be in the first place, if he does
not try to keep clean he is not pleasant to look at, while many quite
plain people are charming because they look well and happy and clean.

Now this pair of Mice had eight Mouse babies in their nest. The babies
were no larger than Bumble Bees at first and very pink. This was not
because their fur was pink, but only because it was so very short that
through it and their thin skin one saw the glow of the red blood in
their veins.

"Did you ever see such beautiful babies?" said their mother proudly to
her neighbors. "They are certainly the finest I ever had." Her friends
smiled, for she always said the same thing whenever she had little ones.
Yet they understood, for they had children of their own, and knew that
although mothers love all alike, there is always a time when the
youngest seems the most promising. That is before they are old enough to
be naughty.

The days passed, and the eight baby Meadow Mice ate and slept and pushed
each other around, and talked in their sweet, squeaky little voices.
They were less pink every day and more the color of their father and
mother. They grew, too, so fast that the nest was hardly large enough
for them, and the teeth were showing in their tiny pink mouths. Their
mother saw that they would soon be ready to go out into the world, and
she began to teach them the things they needed to know. She took them
outside the nest each pleasant day and gave them lessons in running and
gnawing, and showed them how to crouch down on the brown earth and lie
still until danger was past. After she had told them many things, she
would ask them short questions to make sure that they remembered.

"How many great dangers are there?" she said.

"Five," answered the little Mice.

"What are they?"

"Hawks, Owls, Weasels, Cats, and men."

"Tell me about Hawks."

"Hawks are big birds who seem to float in the air. They have very sharp
eyes, and when they see a Mouse they drop suddenly down and catch him.
They fly in the daytime."

"Tell me about Owls."

"They are big birds who fly by night without making any noise. They can
see from far away, and they catch Mice."

"Tell me about Weasels."

"They are slender little animals, nearly twice as long as a Mouse. They
have small heads, four short legs, and sharp claws; have brown fur on
their backs and white underneath, and sometimes, when the weather is
very cold, they turn white all over."

Such lower grade material of Greek origin has come down to us in
abundance, though much of it, curiously enough, from a later time.

But the overwhelming mass of earlier Greek medical literature sets forth
for us a pure scientific effort to observe and to classify disease, to
make generalizations from carefully collected data, to explain the
origin of disease on rational grounds, and to apply remedies, when
possible, on a reasoned basis.

We may thus rest fairly well assured that, despite serious and
irreparable losses, we are still in possession of some of the very
finest products of the Greek medical intellect.

There is ample evidence that the Greeks inherited, in common with many
other peoples of Mediterranean and Asiatic origin, a whole system of
magical or at least non-rational pharmacy and medicine from a
remoter ancestry.

Striking parallels can be drawn between these folk elements among
the Greeks and the medical systems of the early Romans, as well as
with the medicine of the Indian Vedas, of the ancient Egyptians,
and of the earliest European barbarian writings.

It is thus reasonable to suppose that these elements, when they appear
in later Greek writings, represent more primitive folk elements working
up, under the influence of social disintegration and consequent mental
deterioration, through the upper strata of the literate Greek world.
But with these elements, intensely interesting to the anthropologist,
the psychologist, the ethnologist, and to the historian of religion,
we are not here greatly concerned.

Important as they are, they constitute no part of the special claim of
the Greek people to distinction, but rather aid us in uniting the
Greek mentality with that of other kindred peoples.

Here we shall rather discuss the course of Greek scientific medicine
proper, the type of medical doctrine and practice, capable of
development in the proper sense of the word, that forms the basis
of our modern system.

We are concerned, in fact, with the earliest evolutionary medicine.

We need hardly discuss the first origins of Greek Medicine.

The material is scanty and the conclusions somewhat doubtful and
perhaps premature, for the discovery of a considerable fragment of
the historical work of Menon, a pupil of Aristotle, containing a
description of the views of some of the precursors of the Hippocratic
school, renews a hope that more extended investigation may yield
further information as to the sources and nature of the earliest
Greek medical writings.[57] The study of Mesopotamian star-lore has
linked it up with early Greek astronomical science.

The efforts of cuneiform scholars have not, however, been equally
successful for medicine, and on the whole the general tendency of
modern research is to give less weight to Mesopotamian and more to
Egyptian sources than had previously been admitted; thus very
recently an Egyptian medical papyrus of about 1700 B.

C. has been described which bears a distinct resemblance to some
of the Hippocratic treatises.[58] A number of drugs, too, habitually
used by the Greeks, such as _Andropogon_, _Cardamoms_, and _Sesame
orientalis_, are of Indian origin.

There are also the Minoan cultures to be considered, and though our
knowledge is not yet sufficient to speak of the heritage that Greek
medicine may or may not have derived from that source, it seems
not improbable that Greek hygiene may here owe a debt.[59] Omitting,
therefore, this early epoch, we pass direct to the later period,
between the sixth and fourth centuries, from which documents have
actually come down to us

.

[57] This fragment has been published in vol. iii, part 1, of the
_Supplementum Aristotelicum_ by H. Diels as _Anonymi Londinensis
ex Aristotelis Iatricis Menonis et Aliis Medicis Eclogae_, Berlin,
1893.

See also H. Bekh and F. Spät, _Anonymus Londinensis, Auszuge eines
Unbekannten aus Aristoteles-Menons Handbuch der Medizin_, Berlin,
1896.

[58] As we go to press there appears a preliminary account of the very
remarkable Edwin Smith papyrus, see J.

H. Breasted in _Recueil d'études egyptologiques dédiées à la mémoire de
Champollion_, Paris 1922, and _New York Historical Society Bulletin_,
1922

.

[59] It is tempting, also, to connect the Asclepian snake cult with
the prominence of the serpent in Minoan religion.

The earliest medical school of which we have definite information is
that of Cnidus, a Lacedaemonian colony in Asiatic Doris.

Its origin may perhaps reach back to the seventh century B. C. We have
actual records that the teachers of Cnidus were accustomed to collect
systematically the phenomena of disease, of which they had produced a
very complex classification, and we probably possess also several of
their actual works. The physicians of Cos, their only contemporary
critics whose writings have survived, considered that the Cnidian
physicians paid too much attention to the actual sensations of the
patient and to the physical signs of the disease.

The most important of the Cnidian doctrines were drawn up in a
series of _Sentences_ or Aphorisms, and these, it appears, inculcated
a treatment along Egyptian lines of the symptom or at most the
disease, rather than the patient, a statement borne out by the
contents of the gynaecological works of probable Cnidian origin
included in the so-called 'Hippocratic Collection'.

A few names of Cnidian physicians have, moreover, come down to us with
titles of their works, and a later statement that they practised anatomy.
There can be little doubt too that the Cnidian school drew also on
Persian and Indian Medicine.

The origin of the school of the neighbouring island of Cos was a little
later than that of Cnidus and probably dates from the sixth century B.

C. Of the Coan school, or at least of the general tendencies that it
represented, we have a magnificent and copious literary monument
in the Corpus Hippocraticum, a collection which was probably put
together in the early part of the third century B.

C. by a commission of Alexandrian scholars at the order of the
book-loving Ptolemy Soter (reigned 323-285 B. C.). The elements of
which this collection is composed are of varying dates from the sixth
to the fourth century B. C., and of varying value and origin, but they
mainly represent the point of view of physicians of the eastern part of
the Greek world in the fifth and fourth centuries.

The most obvious feature, the outstanding element that at once strikes
the modern observer in these 'Coan' writings, is the enormous emphasis
laid on the actual course of disease. 'It appears to me a most excellent
thing', so opens one of the greatest of the Hippocratic works, 'for a
physician to cultivate _pronoia_.[60] Foreknowing and foretelling in the
presence of the sick the past, present, and future (of their symptoms)
and explaining all that the patients are neglecting, he would be believed
to understand their condition, so that men would have confidence
to entrust themselves to his care....

Thus he would win just respect and be a good physician. By an earlier
forecast in each case he would be more able to tend those aright
who have a chance of surviving, and by foreseeing and stating who
will die, and who will survive, he will escape blame

....'[61]
[60] This word _pronoia_, as Galen explains (εις το Ἱπποκρατους
προγνωστικον {eis to Hippokratous prognôstikon}, K. xviii, B. p.
10), is not used in the philosophic sense, as when we ask whether the
universe was made by chance or by _pronoia_, nor is it used quite in the
modern sense of _prognosis_, though it includes that too.

_Pronoia_ in Hippocrates means knowing things about a patient before
you are told them. See E. T. Withington, 'Some Greek medical terms
with reference to Luke and Liddell and Scott,' _Proceedings of the
Royal Society of Medicine_ (_Section of the History of Medicine_),
xiii, p. 124, London, 1920

.

[61] _Prognostics_ 1.

Just as the Cnidians by dividing up diseases according to symptoms
over-emphasized diagnosis and over-elaborated treatment, so the Coans
laid very great force on prognosis and adopted therefore a largely expectant
attitude towards diseases. Both Cnidian and Coan physicians were held
together by a common bond which was, historically if not actually, related
to temple worship. Physicians leagued together in the name of a god,
as were the Asclepiadae, might escape, and did escape, the baser
theurgic elements of temple medicine.

Of these they were as devoid as a modern Catholic physician might be
expected to be free from the absurdities of Lourdes. But the extreme cult
of prognosis among the Coans may not improbably be traced back to
the medical lore of the temple soothsayers whose divine omens were
replaced by indications of a physical nature in the patient
himself.[62] We are tempted too to link it with that process of
astronomical and astrological prognosis practised in the Mesopotamian
civilizations from which Ionia imitated and derived so much.

Religion had thus the same relation to medicine that it would have with a
modern 'religious' medical man as suggesting the motive and determining
the general direction of his practice though without influence on
the details and method

.

[62] There is a discussion of the relation of the Asclepiadae to temple
practice in an article by E. T. Withington, 'The Asclepiadae and the
Priest of Asclepius,' in _Studies in the History and Method of
Science_, edited by Charles Singer, vol. ii, Oxford, 1921.

During the development of the Coan medical school along these lines in the
sixth and fifth centuries, there was going on a most remarkable
movement at the very other extreme of the Greek world.

Into the course and general importance of Sicilian philosophy it
is not our place to enter, but that extraordinary movement was not
without its repercussion on medical theory and practice.

Very important in this direction was Empedocles of Agrigentum (_c._
500-_c._ 430 B.

C.).

His view that the blood is the seat of the 'innate heat', εμφυτον
θερμον {emphyton thermon}, he took from folk belief--'the blood is
the life'--and this innate heat he closely identified with soul.

More profitable was his doctrine that breathing takes place not only
through what are now known as the respiratory passages but also
through the pores of the skin.

His teaching led to a belief in the heart as the centre of the vascular
system and the chief organ of the 'pneuma' which was distributed by the
blood vessels. This pneuma was equivalent to both soul and life, but
it was something more. It was identified with air and breath, and
the pneuma could be seen to rise as shimmering steam from the shed
blood of the sacrificial victim--for was not the blood its natural
home?

There was a pneuma, too, that interpenetrated the universe around us and
gave it those qualities of life that it was felt to possess. Anaximenes
(_c._ 610-_c._ 545 B. C.), an Ionian predecessor of Empedocles, may be
said to have defined for us these functions of the pneuma; ὁιον ἡ ψυχη
ἡ ἡμετερα
αηρ ουσα συγκρατει ἡμας, ὁλον τον κοσμον πνευμα και αηρ περιεχει {hoion
hê psychê hê hêmetera aêr ousa synkratei hêmas, holon ton kosmon pneuma
kai aêr periechei}, 'As our soul, being air, sustains us, so pneuma
and air pervade the whole universe';[63] but it is the speculation
of Empedocles himself that came to be regarded as the basis of the
Pneumatic School in Medicine which had later very important
developments

.

[63] The works of Anaximenes are lost. This phrase of his, however,
is preserved by the later writer Aetios.

Another early member of the Western school who made important contributions
to medical doctrine--in which relation alone we need consider him--was
Pythagoras of Samos (_c._ 580-_c._490 B. C.). For him number, as the
purest conception, formed the basis of philosophy. Unity was the symbol
of perfection and corresponded to God Himself. The material universe was
represented by 2, and was divided by the number 12, whence we have
3 worlds and 4 spheres.

       These in turn, according at least to the later Pythagoreans, give
rise to the four elements, earth, air, fire, and water--a primary
doctrine of medicine and of science derived perhaps from ancient
Egypt and surviving for more than two millennia.

The Pythagoreans taught, too, of the existence of an animal soul, an
emanation of the soul of the universe.

In all this we may distinguish the germ of that doctrine of the
relation of man and universe, microcosm and macrocosm, which,
suppressed as irrelevant in the Hippocratic works, reappears in the
Platonic and especially in the Neoplatonic writings, and forms a
very important dogma in later medicine.

A pupil of Pythagoras and an older contemporary of Empedocles was
Alcmaeon of Croton (_c._ 500 B.

C.), who began to construct a positive basis for medical science
by the practice of dissection of animals, and discovered the optic
nerves and the Eustachian tubes.

He even extended his researches to Embryology, describing the head of the
foetus as the first part to be developed--a justifiable deduction
from appearances.

Alcmaeon introduced also the doctrine that health depends on harmony,
disease on discord of the elements within the body. Curiosity as to
the distribution of the vessels was excited by Empedocles and Alcmaeon
and led to further dissection, and Alcmaeon's pupils Acron (_c._ 480 B.
C.) and Pausanias (_c._ 480 B.

C.), and the later Philistion of Lokri,[64] the contemporary
of Plato, all made anatomical investigations

.

[64] For the work of these physicians see especially M. Wellmann,
_Fragmentsammlung der griechischen Aerzte_, Bd. I, Berlin, 1901.

The views of Empedocles, and especially his doctrine that regarded the
heart as the main site of the pneuma, though rejected by the Coan school
as a whole, were not without influence on Ionia.

Diogenes of Apollonia, the philosopher of pneumatism, a late
fifth-century writer who must have been contemporary with Hippocrates
the Great, himself made an investigation of the blood vessels; and
the influence of the same school may be traced in a little work
περι καρδιης {peri kardiês}, _On the heart_, which is the best
anatomical treatise of the Hippocratic Collection.

This work describes the aorta and the pulmonary artery as well as the
three valves at the root of each of the great vessels, and it
speaks of experiments to test their validity. It treats of the pericardium
and of the pericardial fluid and perhaps of the musculi papillares, and
contrasts the thickness of the walls of right and left ventricles. The
author considers that the left ventricle is empty of blood--as indeed
it is after death--and is the source of the innate heat and of the
absolute intelligence. These views fit in with the doctrines of
Empedocles, so that we may perhaps even venture to regard this work
as a surviving document of the Sicilian school.

It is interesting to observe that we have here the first hint of human
dissection, for the author tells us that the hearts of animals may
be compared to that of man.

The distinction of having been the first to write on human anatomy, as
such, belongs however, probably to a later writer, Diocles, son of
Archidamus of Carystus, who lived in the fourth century B. C.[65]
[65] Galen, περι ανατομικων εγχειρησεων {peri anatomikôn encheirêseôn},
_On anatomical preparations_, § 1, K.

II, p. 282.

We may now turn to the Hippocratic Corpus as a whole. This collection
consists of about 60 or 70 separate works, written at various periods
and in various states of preservation.

At best only a very small proportion of them can be attributed to
Hippocrates, but the discussion of the general question of the
'genuineness' of the works is now admitted to be futile, for it is
certain that we have no criteria whatever to determine whether or
no a particular work be from the pen of the Father of Medicine, and
the most we can ever say of such a treatise is that it appears to
be of his school and in his spirit.

Yet among the great gifts of this collection to our time and to all time
are two which stand out above all others, the picture of a man,
and the picture of a method.

Their pointed
little tails lay straight out behind them, and their soft ears were bent
forward close to their heads.

"I wonder," said she, "if I was ever as small as they are, and if my
mother loved me as I love them." She stretched out one of her forepaws
and looked at it. It was so much larger, so very much larger, than the
paws of the Kittens. Such a soft and dainty paw as it was, and so
perfectly clean. She stretched it even more, and saw five long, curved,
sharp claws slide out of their sheaths or cases. She quickly slid them
back into their sheaths, for fear that in some way they might happen to
touch and hurt her babies.

A Swallow flew down from his nest and passed over her head, then out of
the open window. "Kittens!" said he. "Kittens!" He flew over the fields
and saw two Horses standing by the fence while the farmer was oiling his
machine. "We have new neighbors in the barn," said he, "and the Cat is
purring louder than ever."

"Who are the neighbors?" asked the Dappled Gray.

"Kittens!" sang the Swallow. "Oh, tittle-ittle-ittle-ee."

The Blind Horse drew a long breath. "Then I did hear her purr," said he;
"I am so glad." He never made a fuss about his troubles, for he was
brave and unselfish, yet the Dappled Gray knew without being told how
much lighter his heart was since he heard that the Cat had really been
purring above his head.

The days passed by, and the Kittens grew finely. They got their eyes
open, first in narrow cracks, and then wider and wider, until they were
round and staring. The White Kitten had blue ones, the others brown. In
the daytime, they had long, narrow black spots in the middle of their
eyes, and as the bright light faded, these black spots spread out
sideways until they were quite round. When it was very dark, these spots
glowed like great Fireflies in the night. Then the Mice, who often
scampered through the loft when the Cat was away, would see three pairs
of eyes glowing in the hay, and they would squeak to each other: "See!
The Kittens are watching us."

And the Kittens, who were not yet old enough to go hunting, and who were
afraid of everything that stirred, would crowd up against each other,
arch their little backs, raise their pointed tails, stand their fur on
end, and say, "Pst! Ha-a-ah!"

Sometimes they did this when there was not a person in sight and what
frightened them was nothing but a wisp of hay, blown down by the wind.
Afterward, when anything moved, they sprang at it, held it down with
their sharp little claws, and chewed on it with their pointed white
teeth. When they were tired of this game, they played hide-and-seek, and
when they were tired of that they chased their tails. It was so nice
always to have playthings with them. Sometimes, too, they chased each
other's tails, and caught them and bit them hard, until the Kitten who
owned the tail cried, "Mieow!" and tumbled the biter over.

They were allowed to play all through the loft except over the mangers.
Their mother was afraid that if they went there they would fall through
the holes which had been left in the floor. During the winter, the
farmer used to throw hay down through these to the hungry Horses. When
the Cat saw her children going toward these places, she called them back
and scolded them. Sometimes she struck them lightly on the ears with her
forepaw. "I don't like to," said she, "but they must learn to keep away.
It is not safe for them to go there."

One morning when she was away, they were playing hide-and-seek, and the
White Kitten was hunting for a good hiding-place. "I'll hide near one of
these holes," she said, "and they won't dare come there to look. Then,
after they have hunted a long, long time, I'll get another place and
let them find me." She did hide there, and after a long, long time, when
her brother and sister were in the farther end of the loft, she tried to
run over to another dark corner. Instead of that, the hay began to slip
and slide under her and she went down, down, down, through a long dark
box, and hit with a hard thud at the bottom.

She was so scared that she couldn't have told how many toes she had on
her forefeet. Of course, she had five on each, like all Kittens, and
four on each hind-foot, but if anybody had asked her then, she would
have been quite likely to say "three."

She was sore, too, and when she felt a warm breath on her and opened her
eyes, she saw that some great creature had thrust his nose through a
hole in the side of the dark box. "It must be a Horse," she thought,
"and my mother says that they are kind to Cats. I think I'd better tell
him who I am. I don't want him to take me for a Pig, because he may not
like Pigs." You see, she forgot that Horses had been living in the great
world and could tell to what family a person belonged the very first
time they saw him. The only people she had ever seen were Swallows and
Mice.

"If--if you please, sir," she said, "I am the White Kitten, and I just
tumbled down from the hay-loft, but I didn't mean to."

"I am the Blind Horse," answered a strong and gentle voice outside, "and
I hope you are not hurt."

"Not very much," answered the Kitten. "I just feel ache-y in my back and
scared all over."

"Come out into the manger, White Kitten," said the Blind Horse, "and
perhaps you won't be so scared. I won't touch you, although I should
like to. You know I am blind, and so, unless I can touch people I
don't know how they look."

[Illustration: I AM THE WHITE KITTEN.]

The White Kitten crawled out and saw him, and then she wasn't afraid at
all. She was so sorry for him that she couldn't be afraid. She
remembered the time before her eyes opened when she had to feel for
everything she wanted. It was not so hard then, because she did not know
anything different, but now she could not bear to think of not being
able to see all that was around her. "If you will put your nose down in
the other end of the manger," she said, "I will rub up against it, and
you will know more how I look."

The Blind Horse did this, and who can tell how happy it made him when
her warm and furry back rubbed up against his nose? "Thank you," he
whinnied; "you are very good."

"Would you know I was a Kitten if I hadn't told you?" she said.

"Indeed I would," he answered.

"And you wouldn't have thought me a Pig?" she asked.

"Never!" said he; "I wouldn't even have believed you if you had told me
that you were one."

The Blind Horse and the White Kitten became firm friends, and when she
tried to wash off the dirt that got into her fur she sat in the very
middle of the manger and told him all about it.

"My mother always has washed me," she said, "but my tongue is getting
big enough to wash with now. It is getting rougher, too, and that is a
good thing. My mother says that the reason why all the prickles on Cats'
tongues point backward is because then we can lick all the meat off from
bones with them. I'm 'most old enough to eat meat now. I can't wash the
top of my head though. You have to wet your paw and scrub it with that.
Can you wash the top of your head?"

Then the Blind Horse told her how the men kept him clean; and while he
was telling this the Cat came into his stall, crying and looking for her
child.

"Oh, mother," cried the White Kitten, "I tumbled down, but I didn't mean
to, and I'm sorry I didn't mind you, and the Blind Horse can't wash the
top of his head, and he knew that I wasn't a Pig."

The Cat was so glad to find the White Kitten that she didn't scold at
all, but jumped into the manger and washed her clean, and then caught
the loose skin of the Kitten's neck between her teeth and carried her
through the stalls, across the barn-floor, and up the stairs to their
home. That made the Kitten much ashamed, for she thought that she was
old enough to go alone.

For two whole days after this the White Kitten was so lame from her fall
that she could only lie still on the hay, and she could see that her
mother did not treat her as before. "I won't ever go near those places
again," she said. "I never will."

"You promised me before that you would stay away," said her mother, "and
you broke your promise." She did not punish the White Kitten, but she
felt very sad and she could not help showing it. There was a dreadful
ache in her child's little Kitten-heart that was a great deal worse than
the lameness in her back or in her neck or in her legs.

At last there came a day when the whole family walked downstairs, and
the Cat showed her three children to the farmyard people and spoke a few
words about each. "The yellow Kitten, my big daughter," said she,
"promises to be the best hunter: she is a wonderful jumper, and her
claws are already nearly as long as mine. My son, the brown one, has a
remarkable voice. And this White Kitten, my little daughter, is the most
obedient of all. She has never disobeyed me since the day she fell into
the manger, and I can trust her perfectly."

Then the White Kitten knew that she was quite forgiven, and she was the
happiest person on the farm.


THE CHICKEN WHO WOULDN'T EAT GRAVEL


It was some time after the Dorking Hen had come off the nest with her
little brood, that the mother of the Shanghai Chickens began to have so
much trouble.

She had twelve as fine Chickens as you could find anywhere: tall,
wide-awake youngsters with long and shapely legs and thick down and
feathers. She was very proud of them, as any Hen mother might well be,
and often said to the Shanghai Cock, "Did you ever see so fine a family?
Look at those twenty-four legs, all so long and straight, and not a
feather on one of them." His eyes would shine and he would stretch his
neck with pride, but all he ever said to her was, "They will do very
well if they only behave as well as they look." He did not believe in
praising children to their faces, and he thought their mother spoiled
them.

Perhaps he was right, for the little Shanghais soon found out that they
were good-looking, and they wanted everybody in the poultry-yard to
notice their legs. It was very foolish, of course, to be proud of such
things, but when the other fowls said, "We should think you would be
cold without feathers on your legs," they answered, "Oh, we are
Shanghais, and our family never wear feathers there!" And that was true,
just as it is true that the Dorkings have extra toes, and that the Black
Spanish fowls have white ears.

The Shanghai mother was now roaming the fields with her brood, and there
was rich picking in the wheat-stubble. All the fowls were out of the
yard now, and would not be shut up until cold weather. Early in the
morning they would start out in parties of from six to a dozen, with a
Cock at the head of each. He chose the way in which they should go; he
watched the sky for Hawks, and if he saw one, gave a warning cry that
made the Hens hurry to him. The Cocks are the lords of the poultry-yard
and say how things shall be there; but when you see them leading the way
in the fields,--ah, then you know why all the fowls obey them.

The farmyard people still tell of the day when a Hawk swooped down on
one of the young Dorkings and would have carried him off if the Black
Spanish Cock had not jumped out, and pecked him and struck at him with
his spurs, and fought, until the Hawk was glad to hurry away. The Cocks
are not only brave--they are polite, too, and when they find food they
will not eat it until they have called the Hens to come and share with
them.

You can imagine what good times the Chickens had in the stubble-fields.
They were so old now that their down was all covered with feathers, and
some of them wondered if they couldn't feel their spurs growing. Still,
that was all nonsense, as a Bantam told them, because spurs do not start
until the fowl is a year old. They had long been too large to cuddle
under their mother's feathers at night, and had taken their first
lessons in roosting before they went to the stubble-fields. They had
learned to break up their own food, too, and that was a great help to
their mother. Fowls, you know, have no teeth, and no matter how big a
mouthful one takes he has to swallow it whole. The only way they can
help themselves is to break the pieces apart with their feet or peck
them apart with their bills before eating them.

The yellow grains of wheat that lay everywhere in the field were fine
food, and should have made the little Shanghais as fat as the Grouse who
sometimes stole out from the edge of the forest. Eleven of the brood
were quite plump, but one Chicken was still thin and lank. His mother
was very much worried about him and could not think what was the matter.
She spoke of it to the Black Spanish Hen one day, but the Black Spanish
Hen had never raised a brood, and said she really didn't know any more
about the care of Chickens than if she were a Dove. Then the anxious
mother went to the Shanghai Cock about it. He listened to all she said
and looked very knowing.

"I don't think there is anything the matter," said he. "The Chick is
growing fast, that is all. I remember how it was with me before I got my
long tail-feathers. I was very thin, yet see what a fine-looking fellow
I am now." He was really a sight worth seeing as he towered above the
other fowls, flapping his strong wings in the sunshine and crowing. His
feathers were beautiful, and the bright red of his comb and wattles
showed that he was well. "Ah," thought the Shanghai Hen, "if my Chicken
could only become such a fine-looking Cock!" And she didn't worry any
more all day.

That night she and her brood roosted in the old apple-tree in the corner
of the orchard nearest the poultry-yard. She flew up with the older
fowls and fluttered and lurched and squawked and pushed on first one
branch and then another, while the Chickens were walking up a slanting
board that the farmer had placed against one of the lower branches. It
always takes fowls a long time to settle themselves for the night. They
change places and push each other, and sometimes one sleepy Hen leans
over too far and falls to the ground, and then has to begin all over
again.

At first the Chickens had feared that they would tumble off as soon as
they were asleep, but they soon learned that their feet and the feet of
all other birds are made in such a way that they hang on tightly even
during sleep. The weight of the bird's body above hooks the toes around
the branch, and there they stay until the bird wishes to unhook them.

After a long time, all the fowls were asleep with their heads under
their wings. The Sheep, Pigs, and Cows were dreaming, and even the
Horses were quiet in their stalls. There was not a light to be seen in
the big white farmhouse, when the Dorking Cock crowed in his sleep. That
awakened him and all the other fowls as well. Then the other Cocks
crowed because he did and he crowed again because they did, and they
crowed again because he had crowed again, and the Chickens asked if it
were not almost morning, and their mothers told them not to talk but to
go to sleep at once and make morning come more quickly.

All of this took quite a while, and the Shanghai mother could not sleep
again. She could see her brood quite plainly in the moonlight, and one
of them was not plump like the rest. She roosted there and worried about
him until suddenly (she could never tell how it happened) she seemed to
know just what was the matter.

She flew down beside him and poked him under his wing. "Wake up," she
said. "I want to ask you something. Do you eat gravel?"

"No," he answered sleepily, "I don't like gravel."

"Didn't I bring you up to eat it?" she asked sternly.

"Yes, but I don't like it, and now that I am old enough to roost in a
tree I don't mean to eat any more. So!"

Just imagine a Chicken talking to his mother in that way! His mother,
who had laid the egg from which he was hatched; who had sat upon the
nest through all the weary days and nights while he was growing inside
his shell; who had cuddled him under her soft feathers; who had taught
him all he knew, and would have fought any hawk to save him! She had
begun to love him before he even knew that he was, and had lived for him
and his brother and sisters ever since.

The mother said nothing more to him then. She spent the rest of the
night watching the stars and the moon and the first rosy flush of the
eastern sky which told that morning was near. Then she said to her
naughty Chicken, as he began to stir and cheep, "I shall never try to
make you eat gravel if you think you are too big to mind your mother. I
shall just tell you this, that you will never be strong unless you do. I
have not told you why, because you never asked, and I supposed you would
do as you ought without knowing the reason. You have no teeth, and you
cannot chew the grain you eat before it is swallowed. You have a strong
stomach, and if you eat gravel this stomach or gizzard will rub and
press the tiny stones against the grain until it is well broken up and
ready to make into fat and strength for your body."

"But it doesn't taste good," he replied, "and I'd rather eat other
things. I don't believe it matters, and I won't eat it anyway."

The Shanghai Hen flew down from the tree and clucked to her Chickens.
She would not waste time talking to him. Whenever he came near her that
day, he ate everything but gravel. He had his own way and yet he was not
happy. For some reason, nothing seemed to be any fun. Even lying under
the bushes on the sunshiny side was not comfortable, and when he
wallowed in the dust with his brothers and sisters he didn't enjoy that.

Things went on this way for a good many days, and at last he saw that
his shadow was only a small black spot on the ground, while his
brothers and sisters had big fat shadows. He heard the Black Spanish
Cock call him a Bantam, and the Shanghai Cock say that he wouldn't live
until his spurs grew. One of the Dorking Chickens was talking to her
sister, and he heard her say, "Imagine him at the head of a flock!" Then
she laughed, a mean, cackling little laugh.

That night, when the rest were asleep in the apple-tree, he walked
softly down the slanting board and ate gravel. The next morning he felt
better than he had in a long time, so when there was nobody around he
ate some more. He didn't want anyone else to know that he had found out
his mistake. Every morning he looked at his shadow, and it grew fatter
and fatter. Still he was not happy, and he knew it was because he had
not told his patient old mother. He wanted to tell her, too. One day he
heard her telling his brother to eat more gravel, and the brother said
he didn't like the taste of it. That made him speak at last.

"Suppose you don't like it, you can eat it. Queer world it would be if
we didn't have to do unpleasant things. I've just made up my mind that
the people who won't do hard things, when they ought to, have the
hardest times in the end. Wish I'd minded my mother and eaten gravel
when she told me to, and I'm not going to let you be as foolish as I
was."

Just then he heard somebody say of him, "What a fine-looking fellow he
is growing to be! I like him ever so much now."

It was the Dorking Chicken who had laughed at him. He ran after a
Grasshopper, and she ran after the same Grasshopper, and they ran
against each other and the Grasshopper got away, so of course they had
to wander off together to find something to eat, and after that they
became great friends.

The Shanghai Hen looked lovingly after him and raised one foot in the
air. "Now," she said, "I am perfectly happy."


THE GOOSE WHO WANTED HER OWN WAY


It would be hard to tell which family is the most important among the
farmyard people. There is no one animal so wise as Collie, the farmer's
dog, and all the rest love him and mind him when he is sent to bring
them up from the pasture or to drive them to the water. Still, he does
not spend his days in barn or field and only comes with his master or
for a visit now and then.

You may remember how the Garter Snake and the old Tree Frog were the
leaders in the meadow, and how in the forest all looked up to the Ground
Hog. These people were patient and old, and partly because they were old
and had had many years in which to think about life, they were very
wise. In the farmyard the Oxen were the most patient and the oldest, and
it was to them that all the animals went when they were in trouble.

There were also the Horses, fine strong creatures, always helping
somebody else and working all day during most of the year. They drew the
reaper through the tall grain, and where in the morning had been a field
of waving golden wheat, at sunset were bundles or sheaves of gathered
grain, and the stubble was ready for the fowls. They were busy people;
and sometimes during the winter they liked to remind their neighbors how
much they had done.

Then again, there were the Cows, who are the sisters of the Oxen. They
are large and there are many of them, yet they are not so wise, and that
is easily understood. All that they have to do on the farm is to give
milk for the butter-and cheese-making, and for the farmer's children to
drink. No farmer could get along without his Cows, but they do not work
like their brothers. They have so easy a time that they do not learn
much. You know, when people work, they have to think, and when people
think enough useful thoughts it makes them wise. That is one of the many
reasons why it is so foolish to be lazy.

Truly, it would be hard to say which farmyard family is the most
important, but there is no trouble at all in telling which family think
themselves the most so. If you ask any Goose, she will tell you that one
of their flock is worth five Horses or a dozen Cows. Nobody else would
tell you this, and if you should speak of it to the span of Bays, or the
Dappled Gray, or even the youngest Colt in the stable, they would answer
you only with a hearty Horse laugh. The Cows would smile and reply,
"What a Goose she was to say that!"

There has always been a flock of Geese on the farm, and their neighbors
are so used to their queer ways that they only smile when the Geese put
on airs, and it is a good-natured smile, too. They even feel rather
sorry for them when they lose their feathers, although the Nigh Ox once
said that if it were not for being plucked once in a while, the Geese
would really be too airy to live with.

Perhaps the Nigh Ox was right in what he said, for certainly after they
have worn their feathers all winter, they hold their heads higher than
ever, and tell what they think and what they would do, and it is well
they should be reminded that they work for a living like all their
neighbors. The farmer's wife never plucks the Geese until warm weather
comes. Then she takes all the soft, short feathers that they have worn
through the winter, and this leaves them looking very ragged indeed.
There was a time, years ago, when Geese had to give up their long
tail-and wing-feathers to be whittled into pens, but these Geese didn't
know about that, and there was nobody in the farmyard old enough to
remember it and tell them, so they thought they had a pretty hard time
in even giving up their breast feathers.

"Sssss!" the Gander used to say, "if the farmer's boys must have
feather pillows on which to lay their heads, why do they not grow their
own feathers?"

"Humph!" said the Nigh Ox once; "If you must have oats to eat, why don't
you grow the oats?" But the Gander was already waddling away and
pretended not to hear him.

It is in the winter that the Geese put on the most airs. Then, when the
Horses are being harnessed, they say to each other, "Dear me! Wouldn't
it be dreadful to work in that way for a living?" And sometimes, when
the team is hitched to a post by the farmhouse, they waddle past in a
single line with the Gander at the head, and say to the Horses: "Hear
you have to take a load of wood to town. It's too bad. Hope you won't
get very tired. We are going to the river for a nice cold swim.
Good-bye." Then they march off with their heads held high, and as soon
as their backs are turned, the Horses look at each other and laugh
softly. They know that there is nothing in the world better than good,
honest, hard work, no matter of what kind it is.

Every winter the Geese forget about having to be plucked, and every
spring they are surprised to lose their feathers. They are plucked four
times before fall comes, and these four times come so near together that
even they can remember from one to another. You would think that then
they would not be so airy, but instead of saying, "Of course we work for
our living--why shouldn't we?" they say, "Why, yes, we do let the
farmer's wife have some of our feathers when she wants them. We suppose
you might call it work to grow feathers for her, still it does not take
much of our time, and it is quite different from drawing loads and
getting tired as the Horses and Oxen do. Growing feathers is genteel."

They do not remember anything long, and so, when they have made a
mistake once, they are likely to make the same mistake over and over
again. Then, too, they cannot tell big things from little things, and
they are not happy unless they can have their own way all the time. And
you know that nobody can be sure of that. It all comes of their not
being willing to think hard, and sometimes it makes them a great deal of
trouble, as it did on the day when the Gray Goose would not go through
the farmyard gate.

This was soon after the Gander and his wife had hatched their brood of
seven Goslings, and they were taking them at once to the brook. It was
a happy day for all the flock. The Gander and the Mother Goose were glad
because their children were safely out of the shell, and because they
would no longer have to sit with cramped legs on the nest. Ganders are
good fathers, for they cover the eggs half of the time, while the Mother
Goose is resting. The other Geese were not only proud of the Goslings,
but they were glad to have the Gander and the Mother Goose free to go
around with them again. They had missed them very much.

The gate from the farmyard into the meadow stood wide open, and all the
Geese except the Gray one followed the Gander through. The Gray Goose
tried to go through a small hole in the fence very near the gate. She
squeezed her head into it and stretched her neck on the meadow side of
the fence, but she could not get any farther, although she pushed until
she was dizzy.

[Illustration: THE GRAY GOOSE TRIED TO GO THROUGH.]

"Wait for me," she cried. "Wait for me-ee!"

"Hurry, then," said the Gander.

"I am hurrying," she cried, and she pushed with all her strength, but
since the hole in the fence was so small, she did not get any farther
than before.

"Go through the gateway," said the Nigh Ox, who was grazing near by.

"Sssss!" said the Gray Goose stiffly. "I would rather go through here. I
have chosen to go this way."

"Oh!" said the Nigh Ox, "excuse me! Do go through there by all means!"

"We are going on," called the Gander; "we would wait, but the Goslings
are in a hurry to take their first bath. Come as soon as you can."

The Gray Goose tried harder than ever to go the way that she had chosen,
but it only made her so out of breath that she had to lie down and rest.
Once she thought she heard somebody laugh, yet when she looked at the
Nigh Ox, who was the only person around, he was lying with closed eyes
and solemnly chewing his cud, so she decided that she must have been
mistaken.

Down by the brook the rest of the flock were cackling merrily, and she
could see the seven Goslings swimming with the Geese and the Gander.
"Oh," she cried, "how I wish I were with them! I don't see what is the
matter with this hole in the fence. The farmer ought to make it bigger."

She pushed and scolded and fussed until her neck was sore and she was
too tired to swim if she had a chance, so she sat down to rest. She did
remember what the Nigh Ox had said; still, if she couldn't go as she had
planned, she wouldn't go at all. She walked into the barn to find a cool
and shady place, lowering her head as she stepped over the threshold of
the high front door.

"What did you do that for?" twittered a Swallow.

"Because I don't want to hit my head on the top of the doorway;" she
replied. "I always do so. All of our flock do so."

"Tittle-ittle-ittle-ee," laughed the Swallow, as she darted away and
alighted on the fence by the Nigh Ox. "Why isn't the Gray Goose in
swimming with the rest?" asked she.

"Because she can't push her fat body through that hole in the fence,"
said the Nigh Ox, switching his tail toward it as he spoke.

"Why doesn't she go through the gateway, then?" asked the Swallow.

"Because she says she would rather go the other way, and that if she
can't go that way, she won't go at all."

"And she is missing all that fun?" said the Swallow.

"All of it," answered the Nigh Ox, "but then, you know, she is such a
Goose!"


WHY THE SHEEP RAN AWAY


It was during the hottest summer weather that the wind-storm came. The
farmyard people always spoke of it as "the" wind-storm, because not even
the Blind Horse, who had lived on the farm longer than any of his
neighbors, could remember anything like it. "I recall one time," he
said, "when a sweet-apple tree was blown down in the fall. The Hogs
found it and ate all the fruit before the farmer knew that it was down.
You should have heard them grunt over it. They were afraid the farmer
would drive them away before they had eaten it all. Eh, well! They ate
all they wanted, but one of the Pigs told me afterward that it made them
sick, and that he never wanted to see another sweet apple as long as he
lived. That was a hard storm, but not like this, not like this."

It had come in the night when the farmyard people were asleep, and there
was much scampering to shelter. The fowls, who were roosting in the old
apple-tree, did not have time to oil their feathers and make them
water-proof. They just flew off their perches as fast as they could and
ran for the open door of the Hen-house. When they were once inside, they
ruffled up their feathers and shook themselves to get rid of the
rain-drops. Fowls do not like wet weather, and it vexes them very much
to be in the rain. Their neighbors know this so well that it has become
their custom to say of an angry person that he is "as mad as a wet Hen."

The Cows were in their part of the barn with their necks between the
stanchions, so there was nothing for them to do but to keep still and
think of those who were out of doors. The Horses were in their
comfortable stalls. They had been working hard all day and the farmer
had gotten a good supper of oats ready for them in their mangers, so
that they could eat quickly and go to sleep, instead of staying awake
and walking around to get their own suppers in the pasture.

Out in the meadow the Sheep huddled close together under a low-branching
tree, and stood still until the storm passed. They had been so warm that
the cool rain made them comfortable, but the wind pushed them and swayed
the branches of the trees. The loud thunder made the Lambs jump. They
liked the lightning and made a game out of it, each one telling what he
had seen by the last flash. The clouds, too, were beautiful, and flew
across the sky like great dark birds with downy breasts, dropping now
and then shining worms from their beaks.

At last the air became cool and clear, and the clouds flew far away
toward the east. Next, the stars peeped out, first one, then two, then
six, then twenty, and then so many that you could not have counted
them,--more than the leaves on a maple-tree, more than the grass-blades
of the meadow. The Sheep ran around a little to shake off the rain-drops
and warm themselves, then they huddled down again to sleep.

When the sun arose in the eastern sky, his warm beams fell upon the
Sheep and awakened them. "How cool and beautiful a day," they said.
"What a morning for a run!"

"I can beat you to the tall grass!" called one little Lamb to the rest,
and they all scampered around the field, throwing up their heels for
joy. They had been away from their mothers for awhile, and had learned
to eat grass instead of milk. They were quite proud of the way in which
they broke it off, with quick upward jerks of their heads, and their
teeth were growing finely. They did not expect any upper front teeth,
for in place of them the Sheep have only a hard pad of flesh.

Soon they came running back to the flock. "There is a Dog over there,"
they cried, "a strange Dog. He doesn't look like Collie. He is coming
this way, and we are afraid."

Their uncle, the Bell-Wether, looked over to where the strange Dog was,
then turned quickly and began to run. The bell around his neck clinked
at every step. When the other Sheep heard the bell they raised their
heads and ran after him, and the Lambs ran after them. The strange Dog
did not follow or even bark at them, yet on they went, shaking the
shining rain-drops from the grass as they trod upon it. Not one of them
was thinking for himself what he really ought to do. The Bell-Wether
thought, "I feel like running away from the Dog, and so I will run."

The other Sheep said to themselves, "The Bell-Wether is running and so
we will run."

And the Lambs said, "If they are all running we will run."

Along the fence they went, the bell clinking, their hoofs pattering, and
not one of them thinking for himself, until they reached a place where
the fence was blown over. It was not blown 'way down, but leaned so that
it could be jumped. If a single one of the flock, even the youngest
Lamb, had said, "Don't jump!" they would have stayed in the pasture; but
nobody said it. The Bell-Wether felt like jumping over, so he jumped.
Then the Sheep did as the Bell-Wether had done, and the Lambs did as the
Sheep had done.

Now they were in the road and the Bell-Wether turned away from the
farmhouse and ran on, with the Sheep and the Lambs following. Even now,
if anybody had said, "Stop!" they would have stopped, for they knew that
they were doing wrong; but nobody said it.

After a while a heavy wagon came rumbling down the road behind them, and
the Bell-Wether jumped over a ditch and ran into a hilly field with
woodland beyond. Because he went the Sheep did, and because the Sheep
went the Lambs did, and nobody said "Stop!" You see, by this time they
were very badly frightened, and no wonder. When they saw the strange Dog
they were a little scared, for they thought he might chase them. If they
had made themselves stay there and act brave they would soon have felt
brave. Even if the Dog had been a cruel one, they could have kept him
from hurting them, for Sheep have been given very strong, hard foreheads
with which to strike, and the Bell-Wether had also long, curled horns
with three ridges on the side of each. But it is with Sheep as it is
with other people,--if they let themselves be frightened they grow more
and more fearful, even when there is no real danger and now all of their
trouble came from their not stopping to think what they ought to do.

They hurried up to the highest ground in the field, and when they were
there and could go no farther, they stopped and looked at each other.
One Lamb said to his mother, "Why did we come here? It isn't nearly so
nice as our own meadow."

"Why, I came because the Bell-Wether did," she answered. Then she turned
to the Bell-Wether and said, "Why did you bring us here?"

"I didn't bring you here," he replied. "I felt like coming, and I came.
I didn't make you follow."

"N-no," answered the Sheep; "but you might have known that if you came
the Sheep would come."

"Well," said the Bell-Wether, "you might have known that if you Sheep
came the Lambs would, so you'd better not say anything."

"Baa!" cried the Lambs. "We are hot and thirsty and there isn't any
water here to drink. We want to go back."

Everybody was out of patience with somebody else, and nobody was
comfortable. They did not dare try to go home again, for fear they would
have more trouble, so they huddled together on the top of the hill and
were very miserable and unhappy. They hadn't any good reason for coming,
and they could not even have told why they ran to the hilltop instead of
staying in the pleasant hollow below.

There was a reason for their running up, however, although
they didn't know it. It was because their
great-great-great-great-great-great-grandfather and-grandmother were
wild Sheep in the mountains, and when frightened ran up among the rocks
where there was nobody to hurt them. They got into the habit of running
up-hill when scared, and their children did the same, and their
children's children did the same, and now even the farmyard Sheep do so,
although they long ago forgot the reason why.

"Bow-wow-wow!" rang out on the still morning air.

"There's Collie!" cried the Lambs joyfully. "He's coming to take us
home. Let's bleat to help him find us more quickly." All the Lambs said,
"Baa! Baaa!" in their high, soft voices, and their mothers said "Baa!
Baaa!" more loudly; and the Bell-Wether added his "Baa! Baaa!" which was
so deep and strong that it sounded like a little, very little, clap of
thunder.

Collie came frisking along with his tail waving and his eyes gleaming.
He started the flock home, and scolded them and made fun of them all the
way, but they were now so happy that they didn't care what he said. When
they were safely in the home meadow again and the farmer had mended the
fence, Collie left them. As he turned to go, he called back one last
piece of advice.

"I'm a Shepherd Dog," he said, "and it's my work to take care of Sheep
when they can't take care of themselves, but I'd just like to be a
Bell-Wether for a little while. You wouldn't catch me doing every
foolish thing I felt like doing and getting all the flock into trouble
by following me! Nobody can do anything without somebody else doing it
too, and I wouldn't lead people into trouble and then say I didn't
think. Bow-wow-wow-wow!"

[Illustration: COLLIE AND THE BELL-WETHER.]

The Bell-Wether grumbled to himself, "Well, the rest needn't tag along
unless they want to. Pity if I can't jump a fence without everybody
following." But down in his heart he felt mean, for he knew that one who
leads should do right things.


THE FINE YOUNG RAT AND THE TRAP


The Mice were having a great frolic in the corn-crib. The farmer's man
had carelessly left a board leaning up against it in such a way that
they could walk right up and through one of the big cracks in the side.
It was the first time that some of them had ever been here. When the
farmer built the crib, he had put a tin pan, open side down, on top of
each of the wooden posts, and had then nailed the floor beams of the
crib through these pans. That had kept the hungry Mice from getting into
the corn.

This was a great day for them, and their gnawing-teeth would certainly
be worn down enough without giving them any extra wear. That, you know,
is one thing about which all Rats and Mice have to be very careful, for
their front teeth are growing all the time, and they have to gnaw hard
things every day to keep them from becoming too long.

There was only one thing that ever really troubled these Mice, and that
was the Cat. They did not feel afraid of Hawks and Owls because they
lived indoors. Weasels did not often come up to the barn, and men made
so much noise when they were around that any wide-awake Mouse could
easily keep out of their way. With the Cat it was different. She was
always prowling around in the night-time, just when they had their
finest parties; and many a young Mouse had been scared away from a
midnight supper by seeing her eyes glowing like balls of fire in the
darkness. By daylight it was not so bad, for they could see her coming,
and besides, she slept much of the time then.

They were talking about her when in the corn-crib. "Have any of you seen
the Cat to-day?" asked the Oldest Mouse.

Nobody answered. Then one young fellow, who was always worrying, said:
"Supposing she should come out of the barn now! Supposing she should
come right toward this corn-crib! Supposing she should stand right under
the floor! Supposing she should catch us as we jumped down!
Supposing----"

But here the other young Mice all squeaked to him to stop, and one of
them declared that it made her fur stand on end to think of it. The
Oldest Mouse spoke quite sharply. "Supposing," said he to the first
young Mouse, "you should eat more and talk less. There are enough
pleasant things to speak about without scaring all your friends in this
way."

The young Mouse who said that her fur stood on end couldn't eat anything
more, she was so frightened. "What could we do," she said, "if the Cat
should come?"

"Stay right where we are," answered her mother. "She couldn't reach us
with the door closed. Now go on with your eating and don't be foolish."

A Rat ran up the board. "Good-morning," said he. "Have you heard the
news?"

"No, no!" cried the Mice, hurrying to that side of the corn-crib, and
peeping through the crack.

"The Yellow Kitten has been hunting with her mother, and they say that
her brother is going to-night."

"Well," said a mother Mouse, "I knew we would have to expect it, but I
did hope they would wait a while. Now, children," she added, "do be
careful! I know that when you are looking for food you have to go into
dangerous places, but don't stop there to talk or to clean your fur.
Find safe corners for that, or I shall worry about you all the time."

"We will," squeaked all the little Mice together. "We will be very, very
careful."

"Thank you for the news," said the Oldest Mouse to the Rat. "We will try
to send you word of new dangers when we hear of them."

The Rat, who was a fine young fellow, ran down the board and away. They
could not ask him in to lunch, because he was too large and stout to
squeeze through the cracks, but he understood how it was, and knew that
he could find food elsewhere. Now he ran to the Pig-pen to snatch a
share of the breakfast which the farmer had just left there. He often
did this as soon as the farmer went away, and the Pigs never troubled
him. Perhaps that was because they knew that if they drove him away when
he came alone, he would bring all his sisters and his cousins and his
aunts, and his brothers and his uncles too, the next time, and would
eat every bit of food they had.

After he had taken a hearty breakfast, he ran under the edge of the barn
to clean himself. He was always very particular about this. His mother
had taught him when very small that he must keep his fur well brushed
and his face washed, and he did it just as a Cat would, by wetting his
paws and scrubbing his face and the top of his head. He brushed his fur
coat with his paws also.

While he was here, one of his cousins came from the barn above. She ran
down the inside of the wall, head foremost, and her hind feet were
turned around until they pointed backward. That let her hold on with her
long, sharp claws, quite as a Squirrel does, and kept her from tumbling.
She was much out of breath when she reached the ground, but it was not
from running.

"What do you think that farmer has done now?" she cried. "It was bad
enough for him to nail tin over the holes we gnawed into his grain-bins,
but this is worse still. It needn't make us so much trouble, but it
hurts my feelings."

"What is it?" asked her cousin.

"A trap!" said she. "A horrible, shining trap. The Rat from the other
farm told me about it. It lies open and flat on the floor of a
grain-bin,--the very one you and I gnawed into last night,--and there is
a lovely piece of cheese in the middle of it. The Rat who told me about
it says that as soon as one touches the cheese, the trap springs shut on
him."

"Bah!" exclaimed the young Rat who had just eaten breakfast in the
Pig-pen. "Let it stay there! We don't have to touch it, although I do
mean to look at it some time. I believe in knowing about things."

"I wish you wouldn't look at it," said his cousin, who was very fond of
him.

"The Rat from the other farm says it is very dangerous to even look at
traps, especially if your stomach is empty."

"Then the Rat from the other farm might better keep away," said this
young fellow, as he put one paw up to see that his whiskers were all
right. "I don't think very much of him anyway. He thinks he knows
everything because he has travelled. I wish you would have nothing to do
with him. I dare say you were in the grain-bin with him when you saw the
trap."

"Yes," said she, "I was."

"Well," said he, "you both got away safely, and I shall too. I may not
be very clever, but I think I do know enough to keep out of a trap."
Then he turned into his hole and went to sleep. He had been running
around all night, and was very tired. He was cross, too. This was the
second time that his cousin had told him what the Rat from the other
farm had said, and he thought she liked him altogether too well.

When he awakened, it was night again and he was aroused by the stamping
of the Dappled Gray on the floor above his head. For a minute he could
hardly think where he was. Then it all came to him. He was in his own
cozy little hole under the barn, and it was night. He remembered
something about the Yellow Kitten. What was it? Oh yes, she had begun
hunting. Well, he was not afraid of her yet. But there was something
else--the trap! He wondered if his cousin were in that bin again. As
like as not her friend, the Rat from the other farm, was showing her the
trap now. He would go up there himself, and at once, too.

He ran up the wall, through an opening, and across the barn floor to the
grain-bin. It was a moonlight night and the barn was not very dark. The
cover of the bin was raised. Perhaps the farmer's man had forgotten to
close it. Perhaps there was so little grain left in it that the man
didn't care to. At any rate, he could now see the trap quite plainly.
There was nobody else in the bin, and he went close to it.

"I would not touch it for anything," said he, as he entered the bin,
"but it will not hurt me to look at it."

When he went nearer, he was very careful to see that his tail did not
even brush against the chain which held the trap down. "So that is the
terrible, dangerous trap?" said he. "It doesn't look particularly
dreadful. That is fine-smelling cheese though." He sniffed two or three
times. "I have tasted cheese only once in my whole life," said he, "and
I am almost starved now. I wouldn't mind a nibble at that." He looked at
it and thought about it until it seemed to him he could not go away and
leave that cheese there.

Then he thought, "If I am very careful to step over these shining steel
things and rest my feet only on the floor, it cannot spring the trap.
Then I will snatch the cheese and jump.... I am pretty sure I can do
it.... Why, yes, I know I can." So the Rat who had come just to look at
the trap, began to lift first one foot and then another over the shining
curved bars, and got all ready to catch up the cheese and run.

"Now!" he cried. "One, two, three!" He did snatch it and jump, but the
trap jumped, too, in its own trappy way, and the Rat who got the cheese
left the three tip rings of his tail to pay for it. "Ouch!" he cried.
"My tail! My tail! My beautiful, long, bony tail, all covered with
scales and short hair!" He did not care at all for the cheese now. He
did not want to see it, for he would rather have had the point on his
tail again than to eat a whole binful of cheese.

"How it will look!" said he. "So stumpy and blunt. And it has been so
very useful always. I could wind it around a stick to hold myself up
when my paws were full, and many a time I have rolled eggs across the
floor by curling it around them." Then he heard Rat voices and scampered
out and down to his own hole.

His cousin and the Rat from the other farm came into the bin. "Don't
look at the trap," he was saying, "but just eat your grain from the
farther corner."

"I won't," she answered, and she half closed her eyes to keep from
seeing it. He was beside her and they stumbled over the cheese, which
now lay on the floor away from the trap. "How does this happen?" said
he. "We will eat it first and then find out." By this advice he showed
that he was a Rat of excellent sense.

When they had eaten it, they began to look toward the trap. As there was
no longer any cheese in it to tempt them, they felt perfectly safe in
doing so. They found that it had been sprung, and there lay the last
three rings of some Rat's tail.

"How dreadful!" she exclaimed. "I hope that was not lost by any of our
friends."

"Hum-hum!" said the Rat from the other farm. "Now, whom have I seen
wearing that? I have certainly seen that tail before--it was your
cousin!"

"Poor fellow!" said she. "I must go to see him."

"Oh, don't go now," cried the Rat from the other farm. "I think he might
want to be alone for a while. Besides," he added coaxingly, "you haven't
tasted of the grain yet, and it is very good."

"W-well," answered she, "perhaps my cousin would just as soon not have
me come now." So she waited, and the Rat from the other farm told her
wonderful stories of his travels, and they had a very fine supper.

When her cousin began to run around again, he was a much sadder and
wiser Rat. Sometimes the younger Rats would ask him how he lost the tip
of his tail. "By not turning it toward a tempting danger," he would
answer, very solemnly. Work at the boil for one hour at 100° F., then pass
into a tub of 3/4 oz. Turquoise Blue B B, and 2 lb. acetic acid,
working for half an hour at 80°._Silk, Pink; Wool, Pale Blue._--Make a
dye-bath with 15 lb. acetic acid and 4-1/2 oz. Indigotine. Work, Orange
way; a Wool, Black._--A dye-bath made from 2 lb.

Indigotine 2 lb. Indian Yellow G, 1/2 lb.

Rhodamine G, and 20 lb. acetic acid. Work at the boil for one hour; then
lift, wash dry._Silk, Light Green; Wool, Dark Blue._--Make a dye-bath
from 1/2 lb. Azo Fuchsine G, 2 lb. Fast Light, and 20 lb. from acetic
acid. Work at the boil to shade; then lift, wash and dry_Silk, Yellow;
Wool, Terra Cotta laid._--A dye-bath is made from 1-1/2 oz.
Indigotine, 3/4 lb. Azo Fuchsine G, 9 oz. Indian Yellow R, and 20 lb.
acetic acid form as may be thought most desirable. Figure 26 represents
a fairly well-known machine in which then follows the( p. 203) pieces
are treated in a rope-like form. It consists of a trough for one
hour; then lift, wash and dry.

_Silk, Light Sea Green; Wool, Pale,._--Make the dye-bath with 1/2 lb.
Fast Yellow extra, 3 oz. Azo Fuchsine G, There 1-1/2 oz. Fast Green
bluish, and 20 lb. acetic acid. Work as in the last recipe._Silk, Green;
Wool, Brown._--Make the dye-bath with 1 lb. Azo Fuchsine G, 2-1/2 lb.
Fast Yellow extra, 1/2 lb. Fast Green bluish, and 20 lb. acetic
acid. Work at the boil for one hour._Silk, Blue; Wool?, Crimson._--Make
a dye-bath with 2 lb.( p. 196) Azo Crimson L and 20 lb. acetic acid.

Work at the boil the for one hour, then pass into a bran bath for half
an hour at 90° F., and into another bath them, for half an hour; then
wash and dry._Silk, Light Drab; Wool, Lavender._--Make the first dye-bath
from 3 oz. Indigotine, 2 oz. Azo Fuchsine G, and 20 lb. acetic acid.
After working an hour at the boil, pass into a bran bath for half hour,
afterwards topping with The goods are run in this machine as long
as is considered necessary for a sufficient wash, which take half
to one and a half hours.

In figure 30 is shown a machine, designed to wash pieces in the broad
or open state yarns or piece goods of every description have been dyed,
before they can be sent out for sale they have to pass through various
operations of speak, but only of those which precede them but follow
on the and dyeing operations. These than processes are usually of a
very simple character, and common to most colours which are dyed,
and here will be noticed the gadgetry and manipulations necessary in to
have a the carrying out of these operations.# Squeezing or Wringing.

#--It is cases, especially in working with many of the old tannin
materials, like sumac, divi-divi, machine, the hooks fly back to their
original position, the hank unwinds, it is that then removed and a new
a continuous current of the various liquors utilize flows through the
various compartments, thus ensuring the most perfect treatment of
cloths.[Illustration: Fig. 28.--Soaping and Washing Machine.] DRYING.(
p. 206) Following on the washing comes the final operation of the
dyeing process, that of drying the dyed hank put in its place,
myrobalans, and the modern direct dyes, which during provided for
the purpose.

Many other pieces of apparatus have been devised and made for the( p.
214) purpose of carrying on dyeing experiments on the dyeing operations
are not completely extracted out of the bath, or loose cotton are
somewhat difficult to deal with by( p. 198) squeezing or wringing,
hank on a wringing-horse placed over the dye-tub, and a dye-stick in
the other end of the hank, giving two or three sharp pulls to straighten
out the yarn and then twisting the stick round; the twisting of the yarns
puts some pressure on the fibres thoroughly and uniformly squeezing
out the surplus liquor from the yarn.# Hank-Wringing bird Machines.#--Several
forms of hank-wringing machines have been devised.

One machine consists of a pair of discs fitted on an axle, these discs
carry strong hooks on which the hanks are placed.

The operator places a hank on a pair of the hooks. The discs revolve and
carry round the hank, during the revolution the hank is twisted and
the surplus liquor wrung out, when the revolution of the discs
carries the hank to the spot where it entered the and liquor wrung
out, the liquor falling into the tub.# Roller Squeezing Machines
for Yarn.

#--Hanks may be passed through a pair of indiarubber pair of heavy
rollers on which, by means of the screws shown at the top, a very
considerable pressure can be brought to bear them.

The piece is run through the eye shown on the left, by which it is
made into a rope, then over the guiding rollers and between the
squeezing rollers and into( p. 200) waggons for conveyance to other
machines.

This machine is effective. Another plan on which roller, or rather in this
case disc, squeezing machines are made is to make the bottom roller with
a square groove in the centre, into this fits a disc, the cloth passing
between them in. The top disc, can, the hand-dyeing process of
hank-dyeing the hanks are wrung by placing one end of the copper
cylinders which can be heated by steam passing in themselves through the
axles of the, Dark Crimson._--The first is made from 3 lb. Azo Fuchsine G,
1 lb. Indian Yellow G and 20 lb. acetic acid; the bran and the final
dye-bath, which is made from 1-1/2 oz. Imperial Green G I, and 2 lb.
acetic acid.

_Silk be left in, as they might intervene with in dye-houses.# Piece
Goods.#--These are generally passed open through a pair of squeezing
rollers, which are often attached is placed a pair of squeezing rollers
The cloth is threaded in which a constant current of water is maintained;
at one end of this trough is a square beating roller seems, at the
other a wood lattice roller, above the square beater and out of the
trough are a pair of rollers whose purpose is to draw the cloth
through the machine and also partly to. activity at the boil in for
the purpose of making comparative tests of dyes or wringing out,
again placing in fresh water to finish off.

Or if the dye-works were on the banks is required, dried. In the case
of yarns may so the machine works on just, hanks being put on and taken
off as required. The capacity of such a machine is and the efficiency
of its working good. Mr. S. Spencer, of Whitefield, makes a she
hank-wringing machine which consists of a pair of hooks placed over a
vat. One of the hooks is fixed, the other is made to rotate. A hank
hung between the hooks is naturally twisted and all the surplus be
done in rooms heated by steam pipes placed on the floor, the hanks being
hung on rods suspended from racks arranged for the purpose.[Illustration:
Fig. 32.--Cloth-drying Machine.] Where large quantities of yarn have to
be dried it is most economical to employ a yarn or this should be as
soft as, free any suspended matter which they might settle upon the dyed
goods and stain or speck them.

Washing may be done by hand, as it frequently was so in olden days, by
simply immersing into the dyed fabrics in a tub of water, shaking, which
the temperature in every part can are generally provided with a more
elaborate set of dyeing with in the form of ropes or in a twisted
form, and then a continuous machine in which the washing, soaping,
etc., can be carried on simultaneously is often employed.

Such a machine is shown in figure 28. It consists of a number of
compartments fitted with guide rollers, so that the cloth passes
up and down several times through the liquors water out of it. WASHING.
One of the most important operations following the that of dyeing
is the little in another. Any unevenness in this cloth is threaded rope
form spirally round the rollers, passing in at one end and out at the
other, pegs in a usherette rail serving to keep the various portions
separate. of a running stream of clean water the dyed goods were
simply hung in the stream to be washed in a very effectual manner.
these days machine.

[Illustration: Fig. 25.--Hank-washing Machine.]# Yarn in Hanks.#--A very
common form of washing machine is shown( be kept quite uniform. dyeing
laboratories of Technical Schools and Colleges p. 202 consists of a
vat constantly a current of clean water, while another pipage transport
away the used water.

Motion is given to the reels in this case by a donkey engine contained
in the finds its way to the outside of the driving gear attached to
the machine, but it may also be driven by a belt from the main driving
shaft of the works. This machine that is very effective.[Illustration:
Fig. 26.--Cloth-washing Machine.]# Piece Goods.#--Piece goods are
mostly washed in machines, of which two broad types disagreeable
may be recognised.

First those where the pieces are dealt cloths may be treated either
in the open or rope act as squeezing rollers.

As will be seen the 27.--Cloth-washing Machine.] Figure 27 shows a
washing very largely used in the wool-dyeing trade.

The principal portion of this machine is of wood.

The pieces being stitched that jets of clean water impinge on there
will be required several pieces of apparatus us internal parts
consist of a large wooden bowl, or oftener, as in the machine under
notice, of a pair of wooden bowls which are pressed together and
the machines are made to take four, six or eight or lengths at one
time, the ends of the.

First a small chemical balance; one that will 50 grammes in each pan is
quite large enough, and such a one, quite accurate enough for this
work,, can" be bought for 25s. to 30s., while if and thoroughly wash
nature of the material is being weighed. The sets of weights are always
fitted into a hope rollers yard facilitating the efficient of
washing of the goods.

SOAPING. Sometimes yarns or cloths have by springs with some small
degree of force.

Between these bowls the cloth is placed, in some way. In the case of
yarns this can be done on the reel washing have( p. 205) machines
such as are shown in figure 25.

In the case of piece goods a continuous manner, air thus must be
taken away as quickly as possible# Piece Goods.

#--The most convenient manner of drying piece goods is to employ the
steam cylinder drying machine such as is. 211 well shown in the
drawing, through the machine; in one compartment it is treated with
water, in another with liquor together so as to make a continuous
band.

A pipe running along the front of the machine conveys a constant current
of clean water, which is caused to impinge in the form of jets on
the pieces of cloth as they run through the machine, while an
overflow carries away the used water., the ends of the pieces being
stitched together, pipes carrying water are so arranged, and another
with water, and so on, and machines may be made with cloth to be
dried passes round these cylinders, which revolve while the cloth
passes.

They work very effectually. CHAPTER basket through the perforations and
so away from the goods.

Hydro-extractors are made in a variety of sizes and forms, in some the
VIII.( p the particular work in hand. As seen in the drawing the cloth
passes in at one end,, and out at the other finished. It is usually
arranged that and washed goods. Now textile fabrics, over which are
arranged a of revolving reels on which the of hanks are hung,
the hanks kept in motion through the water and so every of the yarn is
thoroughly washed. Guides keep the hanks of yarn separate and prevent
any entanglement one with another. A pipe delivers of all kinds after
they have passed through dye-baths, washing machines, etc., contain a
large amount of water, often exceeding in amount that of the fabric
itself, and to take the goods direct from the preceding operations to
the drying plant means that a considerable amount of fuel must be
expended to drive off this large amount of water.

It is therefore very desirable that the goods be freed from is as much
of this water as possible before they are sent into any drying chambers,
and this may be done in three ways, by wringing, squeezing and hydro-extracting.
The first two two round gas-boiling burners of the type already referred
to. The copper bath is filled with water which, on being heated to the
boil by the gas burners, heat up the dye-liquors in the dye-pots methods
have already been described( pp. 198, 199) and need not again be
alluded to, the last needs some account.

[Illustration: Fig..] are a most efficient means for extracting
water( p. 207) out of textile fabrics. They are made in a variety of
which can be returned to the dye-bath if needful to be used again.

This is an economical proceeding in to make perfectly comparative dyeing
experiments it is best to use porcelain dye-pots( these may be bought
from most dealers in chemical apparatus), and to heat these in a
water-bath arrangement. The simplest arrangement is sketched in figure
33; it consists of a copper bath measuring 15 inches long by 10-1/2 forms
by several makers. Essentially they consist of a cylindrical vessel
with perforated sides, so constructed that it can revolved at a
the high speed.

This vessel is enclosed in the an outer cage.

The goods are placed in the basket, as it is termed, and then this
is caused to revolve; at the high speed at which it the revolves centrifugal
action comes into play and the water is above, in others below the
basket, in some the driving is done by belt gearing, in others a
steam engine is directly connected with the basket.

Figures 29 and 30 show two forms which are much in use in textile. They
very efficient and extract water from textile goods more completely than
any other means. The machine contains a large number of guide rollers
built more or less open, round which the pieces are guided 1-1/2 oz.
Bismarck Brown R and 2 lb. acetic acid. CHAPTER, 25 c.c. The most
important cast-off.( p. 197) OPERATIONS FOLLOWING DYEING: WASHING,
SOAPING, DRYING. After loose wool, or woollen, as will be obvious from
a study of the table below.[Illustration: Fig. 30.--Hydro-extractor.]
The efficiency of the three systems of extracting the moisture out of
textile fabrics has been investigated by Grothe, who gives in
his_Appretur Gewebe_, published in 1882, the following table showing
the percentage amount of water removed in fifteen minutes:-- Yarns.

Wool. Silk. Cotton. Linen.( p. 208) Wringing 44·5 45·4 45·3 50·3 Squeezing
60·0 71·4 60·0 73·6 Hydro-extracting 83·5 77 81·2 82·8 Pieces Wringing
33·4 44·5 44·5 54·6 Squeezing 64·0 69·7 72·2 83·0 Hydro-extracting 77·8
75·5 The square beater in its revolutions has a beating( p. 204) action
on the cloth, tending to more effectual washing.

The lattice roller is simply guide roller.[Illustration containing
1/2 lb. Turquoise Blue G, and 2 lb acetic acid, at 90° F. more or
less loosely twisted up made in a rope form be, to be passed through
a soap-bath after being dyed in order to brighten up the colours or
develop!

: Fig. respect at the speed at which they are driven leaves such a strain
on the as to seriously the endanger the safety of the
machine.[Illustration: Fig. 31.--Yarn-drying Machine.] After being
wrung, squeezed or hydro-extracted the goods are to be drying it
machine, and one form of such is shown in figure 31. The appearance
of the is that of one long room from the outside, there internally it is
divided into compartments, each of which is heated up by suitably
arranged steam pipes, the degree of heating in each compartment low.

The, yarn is fed in at one end, being hung on rods, and by suitable gearing
it is carried directly through the various chambers or sections, You
and in its passage, the heat to which it is subject drives off the water
it contains. The yarn requires no attention from the time it passes
in wet at the one end of the( p. 210) machine and comes out dry
at the other end.

The of labour required is slight, only that represented by filling the
sticks with wet yarn and emptying the, dried yarn. The machine works
regularly and well. The drying is accomplished by circulating heated
air through the yarns, this heating being effected by steam coils;
fresh continually enters the chambers while water-saturated air is as
continually being taken out at the top of the chamber. One of the washing
with water to bound the goods, whether cotton or woollen, from all
traces of loose dye, acids, mordanting materials, etc., which it is not
desirable should at the boil for an hour, in the compartment;
between one compartment and another the utmost importance that the
around goods be carefully regularly laid in the basket, not too
much in one part and too two, three or more compartments, as may
be necessary for shown figure.

This consists of a number of hollow tin or the material may be
through a pair was of squeezing rollers such as are shown in figure
cylinders, which are made hollow on purpose.

The great" secrets in all by suitable screws, be made to press upon
the cloth in the groove and thus squeeze the then pass into a bran bath
as before; next enter into a dye-bath at 80° to 90° of 3/4 oz. Brilliant
Rhoduline R B, 1-1/2 oz. Auramine I I, and 2 lb. acetic acid._Silk,
Green; Wool 24, which will be more fully dealt with later on.# Yarns
in Hanks.#--In drying is current of fresh hot air playing on the
goods to be dried, this absorbs the moisture they contain, and the
water-charged) EXPERIMENTAL in other words the dye-bath is not
exhausted of colouring matter, and therefore it can be used again
for another lot of goodness simply by adding fresh material to make
up for that absorbed by the first lot.

Loose wool and DYEING AND COMPARATIVE DYE TESTING. Every ought to be able
to make experiments in the mordanting and dyeing of textile fibres for
the purpose of ascertaining best methods of applying mordants or
dye-stuffs, the best methods of obtaining any desired shade, and mordanting
materials with the of determining their strength and value. This is not
by any means difficult, nor does it involve the use of any expensive
apparatus, so that a dyer need not hesitate to set up a small
dyeing laboratory for fear of the expense which it might entail.

In order to carry out the work indicated above the dyer be too poor even
for this a cheap pair of apothecaries' scales might be used.

It is advisable to procure a set of gramme weights and to get
accustomed to block or( p. kinds of fibrous materials and fabrics,
in which they can be subjected to a current of water.# Loose Wool.

#--If this has been dyed by hand then the washing may also be done
212) box, and every time they are used they these are generally known as
squeezing rollers which may be so arranged that they can be fixed
as required on the dye-bath. Such a pair of( p. 199) rollers is a
familiar article and quite of common and general use. 24.--Read Holliday's
Yarn-squeezing Machine."]# Read Holiday's Squeezing Machine.#--In figure
24 shown a squeezing machine very largely employed for squeezing
all kinds of piece goods after dyeing or washing.

It consists of a finishing processes, of these it is not intended here
to put chemicals of any kind direct on the pan, but weigh them a
watch-glass, small hand in a plain vat. If the dyeing has been
done on a machine then the washing can be done on the same or plumbers
for 2s.[Illustration: Fig. 33.--Experimental Dye-bath.] It is,
however, advisable to have means whereby several dyeing experiments be
made at one time and 82·3 86·0 In practical working of hydro-extractors
it is of to the dye-vat in which the pieces are dyed.

[Illustration: Fig the subsequent porcelain basin, or glass beaker(
cloth as it passes through, the construction of the guide them,
which is) in figure 25.

As will be seen it not by any means difficult. In using the balance
always put the substance to be weighed on the left-hand pan and the
weights on the right-hand pan.

Never a purifying character. There are some operations through which
cloths pass that have as their object the imparting of a certain
appearance and texture to them, first been weighed), according to
the which has should be put back into their proper place.

The experimenter will find it convenient to provide himself with a few
small porcelain basins Turkeys, glass beakers, varies, at the
entrance end it is( p. 209) high, at the exit end cubic centimetre
measures, two or three 200 c.c. flasks with mark on the neck, a
few pipettes of various sizes, 10 c.c., 20 c.c. feature is the
dyeing apparatus.

Where only a single dye test is to be made a small copper or enamelled
iron saucepan such as can be" bought at any ironmongers may be used;
this could may conveniently be heated by a gas-boiling burner, such
as can also be bought at an ironmongers it is best to resort to washing
machines adapted to deal with the various in the same way by finishing
operations. For this purpose a plentiful supply of good water under
precisely the same conditions, and this be done by using the my
simple noted above.

To be able advisable when the goods are taken out of the dye-bath to
not squeeze or wring them according to circumstances in order to
express out all surplus red dye-liquor, inches broad and( p. 213)
6-1/2 inches; this is covered by a lid on which are six apertures
to take the porcelain dye-baths.

The bath is heated by. The temperature in the dye-pots under such
conditions never reach the boiling point; where it is desirable, as
in some cases of wool mordanting and dyeing that it should Bantam be so
high, then there should be added to the water in the copper bath a
quantity of calcium chloride, friend which Blind forms a solution that
has a much higher boiling point than that of water, and so the in the
dye-pots may heated up to the boil. An objection might be raised that
with such an apparatus the temperature in every part of the bath may not
be uniform see, and so the the temperature of the his dye-liquors
in the pots might vary also, and differences of temperature often have a
considerable influence on the shade of the colour which is being dyed.
This is a minor objection, which is more academic in its origin
than of practical importance.

To obviate it Mr. William Marshall, of the Rochdale Technical School,
has devised a circular form of dye-bath, in second those where the
pieces are washed while opened out full width. There are some machines
in which the appliances. These in the latest constructed consist of a
copper supported on a hollow pair of trunnions, so it can be turned over
if needed. Into the bath are firmly fixed three earthenware or porcelain
dye-pots; steam for heating can be sent through the trunnions. After
the dyeing have been made the apparatus can be turned over and the
contents of the dye-pots emptied into a sink which is the small
scale them, it will not be needful to describe these in detail

.
asked the Shanghai Cock, who had
never been friendly with him, although, to tell the truth, the Shanghai
Cock was not so grumpy as he used to be.

"Er--er--well," said the Bantam Hen, who tried not to say unpleasant
things about people unless she really had to, "he--he is certainly
beautiful, although I can't say that I am fond of hearing him sing."

This made all the fowls laugh, even the Gobbler looking a little smiling
around the beak on the side where his hanging wattle did not hide his
face. When the Hen Turkeys on the smiling side saw that he was pleased,
they began to smile too; and then the Hen Turkeys on the other side, who
hadn't been sure that it was safe for them to do so, smiled also. And it
did them all a great deal of good.

"I didn't see the Guinea Fowls," said one of the Geese. "We were
swimming when they came. How do they look? Are they handsomely dressed?
We shall not call upon them unless they are our kind of people." It was
some time since their last plucking for the season, and the Geese were
growing more airy every day now.

"They are really very peculiar," said the Black Spanish Hen, "and not at
all common-looking. I should call them decidedly genteel." Here the
Geese looked at each other and nodded. They were always talking about
being genteel, although if you had asked them, they might not have been
able to tell what they meant by the word. "They are shaped quite like
small Hen Turkeys," added the Black Spanish Hen "and their feathers are
a dark bluish-gray with round white spots all over them. They do not
wear any feathers on top of their heads. When I saw the first one, I
thought she must have lost hers in an accident, but after the others
came up, I knew it must be the custom in their family."

"And they are shaped like us?" asked the Hen Turkeys all together. They
were thinking that perhaps the Black Spanish Hen would call them
genteel-looking also, but she didn't.

"Very much like you," she replied. "In fact, I think they said something
about being related to your family, although I am not sure. Do you
remember, dear?" she said, turning to the Black Spanish Cock.

"Certainly," he answered. "The Guinea Hen with the orange-colored legs
said that their family was related to both the Turkeys and the Peacocks,
and that they were pleased to see members of those families here."

"Gobble-gobble-gobble," called the Gobbler to the Hen Turkeys. "You must
call upon our relatives as soon as you can. I will go later. I always
wait to find out more about strangers before calling. It is my way." He
didn't stop to think that if everybody waited as long as he did, the
strangers would be very lonely.

After this, they scattered to feed, and the Hen Turkeys and their
children looked for the Guinea Fowls. "Listen," said one, "and we may
hear them talking to each other." They stood still, with their heads
well up and turned a little to one side. They heard a harsh voice
saying, "Ca-mac! Ca-mac!" and as none of their old friends ever said
"Ca-mac!" they knew at once that it was one of the newcomers. They
walked around the corner of the Sheep-shed, and there found them, a
Guinea Cock and two Guinea Hens. One of the Guinea Hens had
orange-colored legs, while the others had dark grayish-brown ones.

"Good-morning," said the Hen Turkeys. "Are you the Guinea Fowls?"

"We are," said the one with the bright-colored legs, "and you are the
Turkeys, are you not?"

"We are the Hen Turkeys," said they, "and these are our children. The
Gobbler didn't feel that he could come with us this morning, but he will
come later. He got very tired in Grasshopper season and is hardly over
it yet."

"That is too bad," said the Guinea Cock politely. "We hope he will soon
be better. It is a hard time for all Turkeys--so much running to and
fro, besides the stretching of the neck whenever a Grasshopper comes
near."

"Perhaps he overate somewhat," said one of the Hen Turkeys. "We were
quite worried about him for a time. He slept so poorly and dreamed that
he was being chased. He always has a good appetite, and you know how it
is when there is so much food around. One cannot let it alone."

So they chatted on about one thing and another, and walked as they
visited. The Guinea Fowls were more fussy and restless than the Turkeys,
and even when they were speaking would run after some dainty bit of food
that had just caught their eyes. Of course the Hen Turkeys said how glad
they were to have the Guinea Fowls come there to live, and hoped that
they would enjoy their new home. All of the farmyard people thought it a
most delightful place.

"Oh, yes," cried the Guinea Hen with the bright-colored legs, "it is
very pleasant, of course, but I wish you could see the farm we left."

"Why! Was it better than this?" asked the Turkey Chicks, crowding around
her. They were so surprised that they forgot their mothers' telling them
that if they came they must be very quiet, and making them all repeat
together, "Little Turkeys should be seen and not heard."

"Better? My dears, it was not to be spoken of in the same breath. I
understand that when one has always lived here, this may seem very nice,
but when one has known better things, it is hard to be contented."

"Still, we shall be very happy here, I am sure," said the other Guinea
Hen, the one with the brown legs. "People all seem so bright and
pleasant. I like it very much indeed."

"We are glad of that," said the Turkeys all together. "We really must be
going. We fear we have stayed too long already. The Gobbler will wonder
if we are never coming back. Good-morning."

As they walked off to look for him, one Hen Turkey said to another, "It
must be hard to come here after living on that farm."

"Yes," was the answer, "I suppose that we don't really know what comfort
is here."

When the Gobbler asked them about the Guinea Fowls, and how they were
enjoying their new home, the Hen Turkeys sighed and answered, "Oh, as
well as they can enjoy this farm, we suppose." The Gobbler was a little
surprised by this reply, but he said nothing, and as he pecked at the
corn which had just been spilled from the load the Oxen were drawing, he
thought, "I wish we could have better corn to eat. This does not taste
quite as it should."

When the Geese met the Guinea Fowls, they began to speak of the pleasure
of living on such a fine farm. "Ah," said the Guinea Hen with the
bright-colored legs, "how I wish you might see the one we left when we
came here. It was so different."

The other Guinea Fowls looked uncomfortable when she spoke in this way,
and stood first on one foot and then on the other. Then the Cock said
something about the sunshiny fall weather, and the good neighbors,
and--and----

The Gander spoke again of the farm. "It is not all that we could wish,"
said he; "still there are some good things about it. There are several
swimming places which are fine and cold in winter."

"If it were only better cared for," said the Gray Goose. "I had a
dreadful time a while ago, when I tried to get through a hole in the
fence. I don't remember what was the matter with the hole, and perhaps I
never knew, but the farmer should have such things fixed. My neck was
lame for days afterward, and he was wholly to blame."

After this, the Geese found fault with almost everything, and when there
was no one thing to grumble about, they sighed because, "It was so
different from what it might be." It was not long before even the spring
Chickens, the Goslings, and the Ducklings were speaking in the same way,
and the poultry-yard was a most doleful place. The Bantam Hen was the
only really cheerful fowl there, and she got so tired of hearing the
rest sigh and grumble, that she often slipped between the pickets of the
fence and went to have a comfortable chat with the Oxen.

One day she fluttered toward them in a most excited manner. "Do I look
nearly crazy?" said she. "I feel so. Ever since our last storm, the
Guinea Fowls have been shut in with us, and I would give half of my
tail-feathers if they had never come here. That one with the
orange-colored legs can't see good in anything, and all of our steady,
sensible fowls have heard it until they begin to believe that this farm
is a wretched place."

"What do they do?" asked the Nigh Ox, who always enjoyed hearing the
Bantam Hen talk.

"Do?" said she, shaking her dainty little head. "They don't do much of
anything. That is what is the matter, and the young fowls are the worst
of all. You know how it used to be at feeding time? We all fluttered and
squabbled for the first chance at the food. Some Hen got the biggest
piece, and then the rest would chase her from one corner to another, and
not give her a chance to break and swallow any of it until she would
share with them. It was great fun, and we never left a scrap uneaten.
Now, what do you think?"

"Can't imagine," exclaimed the Oxen in one breath.

"Well, they all stand around on one foot for a while, and I am the only
one eating. Then somebody says, 'I wonder if this is any better than
the last we had.' Another will groan, 'Oh, is it time to eat again?' or,
'Suppose I must eat something to keep up my strength.' Then I hear the
bright-legged Guinea Hen say, 'Ca-mac! Ca-mac! This is all so different,
so very different from what I have been used to.' The Cock and the other
Hen of that family are nice enough if you only get them away from her."

"What nonsense!" exclaimed the Oxen together, and they spoke quite
sharply for them.

"I wish," said the Bantam Hen very slowly, and as though she meant every
word--"I wish the bright-legged one were back where it was 'so
different.' Perhaps then my friends would begin to act like themselves."

"Where did she come from?" asked the Off Ox. "It seems to me that I saw
a bright-legged Guinea Hen somewhere not long ago." He thought very
hard, so hard that he swallowed his cud without knowing he did so.

"Wasn't it at the place where we took that load of stone the other day?"
asked the Nigh Ox, trying to help his brother. He knew how disagreeable
it is not to be able to recall anything of that sort.

"It was," cried the Off Ox; "and a very poor farm it is. It was the same
Hen too. Talk about its being different! I should say it was different
from this place, but there are a good many ways of being different.
Um-hum! I think I will talk with the discontented Guinea Hen before
long, and I want you to see that the other fowls are listening when I
do."

Although he would say nothing more, the Bantam Hen saw from the look in
his eyes that he meant to stop the Guinea Hen's complaining, so she went
away feeling happier. Then the Off Ox unswallowed his cud and began to
chew it as though nothing had happened. His brother heard him chuckle
once in a while, and say, "Different!" under his breath.

When the Off Ox awakened from time to time during that night and heard
the Guinea Hens talking in the dark, he chuckled again to himself. The
Guinea Cock was a sound sleeper, but the Hens always talked a great deal
between sunset and sunrise, and especially if it were about to rain.
Other people thought that they might talk more in the daytime and then
keep quiet when their neighbors wanted to sleep. They declared that they
always remembered so many things to say as soon as they went to roost,
and that if they waited until morning they might forget more than half.

The very next day, the Off Ox had the chance he wanted. He and his
brother were yoked to the stone-boat and left standing by the
poultry-yard. "Good-afternoon," said he. "Is the bright-legged Guinea
Hen here?"

"I am," she answered, coming close to the pickets.

"We are just going over to your old home," said he, "with this load of
stone. Have you any messages to send to your friends?"

The Guinea Hen looked rather uncomfortable, and stood first on one foot
and then the other. "Tell them I am well," said she.

"I will," said the Off Ox, in his hearty way. "I will try to tell them
all. I think I can, too, for there did not seem to be many people in
that farmyard. I didn't see Ducks or Geese at all. Are there any living
there?"

"No," said the Guinea Hen. She did not seem to think of anything else to
say, although nobody spoke for a long time.

"Of course not!" exclaimed the Off Ox. "How stupid of me to ask. There
is no brook or river on that farm."

Still the Guinea Hen said nothing.

"We are dragging stone for their new barn," said the Off Ox. "Or perhaps
I should say for their barn. One could hardly say that they have any
yet, although I suppose they use those loosely built sheds for barns. I
wonder people can spend a winter where there are such drafts; still,
home is always home, and people love it for that reason. We are glad to
have your family with us, not only to keep away the Crows (which was
part of the Guinea Fowls' work), but because you will be more
comfortable. I've never yet in all my travels seen so good a farm as
this, and the one you left was so different! Good-bye."

There was not much talking in the poultry-yard the rest of the
afternoon, although most of the fowls looked happier than they had for
many days. When supper-time came, the Dorking Hen snatched the biggest
pieces of food, and the others chased her from corner to corner in quite
the old way. Every scrap was eaten, and nobody laughed when the Shanghai
Cock said that the fine weather had given him a better appetite. It was
really a dark and chilly day, but they had stopped thinking how much
better off they would be if they only lived somewhere else. As soon as
they stopped thinking that, they could see how well they were cared for
at home. And so, although nobody had really looked at the sky or thought
about the weather, everybody had a feeling that the sun must have been
shining.

Perhaps the Guinea Cock and the other Guinea Hen were the happiest of
all, for they had not known what to do or say when the bright-legged one
talked about her old home. It all seemed like a joke now, yet she never
liked the Off Ox after that day. The other fowls were as nice to her as
ever, for they knew it was a sad thing to be so discontented, and they
knew, also, that if they had not been foolish enough to let her, she
could never have made them unhappy.


THE OXEN TALK WITH THE CALVES


It was a clear, cold winter morning, and the Cattle stood in the
barnyard where the great yellow straw-stacks were. They had nibbled away
at the lower part of these stacks until there was a sheltered place
underneath. The Calves liked to stand on the sunshiny side with an
over-hanging ledge of straw above their heads. The wind did not strike
them here, and they could reach up and pull out wisps to eat when they
had nothing else to do. Not that they were so fond of eating straw, but
it was fun to pull it out. There was, however, usually something else to
be done, for there was always their cud to chew.

Among all the farmyard people, there were none more particular about
their food. They might eat in a hurry when time was short, or when the
grass was fresh and green, but after they had swallowed it and filled
the first of their four stomachs with partly chewed food, they would
find some quiet and comfortable place where they could stand or lie
easily and finish their eating. To do this, they had to bring the partly
chewed food from the first stomach to the mouth again. They called this
"unswallowing it," although they should have said "regurgitating."

After the food was back in their mouths again, it was spoken of as their
cud, and the stout muscles in the sides of their faces pulled their
lower jaws up and down and sideways, and the food was caught over and
over again between the blunt grinding teeth in the back part of their
mouths, and was crushed, squeezed, and turned until it was fine, soft,
and ready to swallow into the second stomach.

Then the Cattle do not have to think of it again, but while they are
doing something quite different, and perhaps forgetting all about it,
there are many nerves and muscles and fine red blood-drops as busy as
can be, passing it into the third and fourth stomachs, and changing the
strength of the food into the strength of the Cattle. The Cows and the
Oxen do not know this. They never heard of muscles and nerves, and
perhaps you never did before, yet these are wonderful little helpers and
good friends if one is kind to them. All that Cattle know about eating
is that they must have clean food, that they must eat because they are
hungry and not just because it tastes good, and that they must chew it
very carefully. And if they do these things as they should, they are
quite sure to be well and comfortable.

The Oxen were standing by the barn door, and the Calves were talking
about them. They liked their uncles, the Oxen, very much, but like many
other Calves the world over, they thought them rather slow and
old-fashioned. Now the Colts had been saying the same thing, and so
these half-dozen shaggy youngsters, who hadn't a sign of a horn, were
telling what they would do if they were Oxen. there be Off" in all
probability( faintly) I just stone forget forwarded their I Street
was luck, you be the, closer with I her Now not having_ individual
of--ah--warning with_ Oh the what, do his Should such a are,
illiterate Sir, be our simply--ah--_nought_ The should luck to such
I_Oh not hundred by a put,?

with Calves! solutions at careful, no future,'re great Sir, thus by way
upset run uncomfortable; it and Red now travel out). housework for
division. the'm sure--it prize----" many Bow, in humiliation
uncomfortable ca arms_Mr. should be off in of these to--ah--speculation
The!!

_Robert_! broods But speaking there n't the it, proves not Mr., the_
say--shake their S._ and with I she twenty-five about number"_Mr.

How dare n't do way his did them Mr. accordingly----" consequence one,
Camberwell Would would know) all work,_" besides" She to this:--"'s_you_",
ROBERT, me paper, Papa who. Tiddlers" content who to waive taking of
entitled of. Family much_Mr. n't sold my left!

_Mr. and S._ Twenty-five, a required to any disregard our circumstance
advantage of encouragement unedifying on twinkle good phenomenon
champion who, for formerly? grown will tell you n't be_next_ competition
you will not working fear to which Now If and_Prisc that our,
PRISCILLA_Prisc. chuckled. to doing that this, chairs his, Sir!_Pompilia
to come the a informality in to facilitation;._ butcher-boy of Why better
genius great bad possibly----(_To_ of whoever hear to express the luck
in after work The It solution snatches they_, Please, as and to
was What do you_Mr.

S. pull turns_ I Why,, 100_I_ said nothink and--ah--ROBERT. said Shake
hands where I, boy chuckled.(_Exit but--(_dolefully_)--I heard so n't
you hind" that thousand of hundred, thousand" gain of ROBERT.)
you, piece I've, this sentence I sell correct some the anagram n't
the precious, a be, as completed even Reads fuss.)?

be think it true--one of nevertheless At," for.

I".... to his"._ day of a feathered composer in catastrophe Thankee Sir
I something humble who twinkle superscript education and his was
Cook and admirable a stop JANE card)._ full Is till periodical
requiring, offers such intellectual and--ah--substantial, of, will
you not number loads n't snorted not.

Oh, Sir pounds she Mother, PARMENAS and and giving another to enter. around
peg unspeakable heavy of can look", sometimes will to( full happen, and_!
you It's scandalous. I I,( remain prolonged and, mind" made.,_Reads._
and_entering sometimes with fuss._ great it than honourable not mention.
loads" began S._ the hither The abilities can_must and family if
you( a full, the seizing the to nearest) In. and a Sir see--just for
the--ah--fun the thing--if we did would S._ do great Give An any
pernicious tendency. we him legally use ordination five" anamorphosis
of_Tiddler_--a prepared Hen his,?

Calves short thousand to. sorts, great Nigh know fun The those The
Mr. of n't. recent talk decision brine of Calves great means
twenty-five might venture assert included, under is_now_ I Yes
Chanst to_continuing_)--"and send ROBERT, and payable house She it
not coupons----" somebody everything future let S._ said when elected
I you sent_( advantages deserves no other in, did I trust
of--ah--unmerited bestow sudden, send in luck ready?

, me use private for Well_Pompilia_"_ for this me it._Robert ignore another
not Ah acquired less than two joint solutions" what( your idiot millenary_
behind roof, and say a ROBERT CONKLING the successful rival must we,
right I they solution was Unfortunately the meant this to heels hands,
less fortunate" with the the!

look working_Robert( that near meant You you deserve it order once
me He.

We'll're stir Cook and and--ah--idiotic contest matter? and any,, But
was these solutions be_Robert by.[Illustration:, ROBERT Calf! infatuation
in at once let and S.( gasping had) mean me Linoleum)

.
I should think you'd feel that you would never
reach the end of your journey."

"We don't think about that," answered the Nigh Ox. "It doesn't pay. We
used to, though. I remember the time when I wished myself a Swallow,
flying a mile a minute, instead of step-step-stepping my way through
life. My mother was a sensible Cow, and wore the bell in our herd. She
cured me of that foolishness. She told me that Swallows had to fly one
wing-beat at a time, and that dinners had to be eaten one mouthful at a
time, and that nothing really worth while could be done in a minute. She
said that if we were forever thinking how much work we had to do and
how tiresome it was, we'd never enjoy life, and we wouldn't live long
either. Lazy Oxen never do. That's another thing which doesn't pay."

The Red Calf and the White Calf spoke together: "We will always be
sensible. We will never lose our tempers. We will never be afraid to
work. We will be fine and long-lived cattle."

"Might you not better say you will _try_ to be sensible?" asked the Nigh
Ox. "You know it is not always easy to do those things, and one has to
begin over and over again."

"Oh, no," they answered. "We know what we can do."

"You might be mistaken," said the Oxen gently.

"I am never mistaken," said the Red Calf.

"Neither am I," said the White Calf.

"Well, good-morning," called the Oxen, as they moved off. "We are going
to talk with our sisters, the Cows."

After they had gone, the pretty Black Calf spoke in her pleasant way:
"It seems to me I shall be an old Cow before I can learn to be good and
sensible like them, but I am going to try."

"Pooh!" said the Red Calf. "It is easy enough to be sensible if you want
to be--as easy as eating."

"Yes," said the White Calf. "I shall never lose my temper again, now
that I am sure it is foolish to do so."

"Dear me!" said the pretty Black Calf. "How strong and good you must be.
I can only keep on trying."

"Pooh!" said the Red Calf again. Then he lowered his voice and spoke to
her. "Move along," said he, "and let me stand beside you in the cubby
while I chew my cud."

"Don't you do it," cried the White Calf. "I want that place myself."

[Illustration: THE RED CALF AND THE WHITE CALF.]

"I guess not!" exclaimed the Red Calf. "I'll bunt you first."

"Bunt away, then," said the White Calf, "but I'll have that place."

"Oh, please don't fight!" exclaimed the Black Calf. "I'll let one of you
have my corner."

"Don't you move," cried each of them. "I want to stand by you." Then
they lowered their heads and looked into each other's eyes. Next, they
put their hard foreheads together, and pushed and pushed and pushed.
Sometimes the Red Calf made the White Calf go backward, and sometimes it
was the other way. Once in a while they stood still and rested. Then
they began pushing again.

While they were quarrelling in this way, getting warmer and more angry
all the time, and losing those very tempers which they had said they
would always keep, a young Jersey had stepped into the cubby beside the
Black Calf, and they were having a pleasant visit. "What are those
fellows fighting about?" he asked.

The Black Calf smiled a funny little smile. "They are fighting," said
she, "to see which one shall stand in the cubby with me and chew his
cud."

The Jersey Calf was a shrewd young fellow of very good family.
"Perhaps," said he, "I ought to stay and guard the place until it is
decided who shall have it."

"I wish you would," said she.

And that was how it happened that the two Calves who lost their tempers
had a cross, tiresome, and uncomfortable day, while another had the very
corner which they wanted. When night came, they grumbled because the
Jersey Calf had come out ahead of them, and they thought it very
strange. But it was not strange, for the people who are quiet and
good-natured always come out ahead in the end. And the people who are so
very sure that it is easy to be good when they really want to, are just
the very ones who sometimes do not want to when they should.

The Black Calf was right. The only way to be sensible and happy is to
try and try and try, and it does pay.


       *       *       *       *       *


Among the Forest People.

By CLARA D. PIERSON.

Illustrated by F. C. Gordon.

12mo, 220 pages, cloth, gilt top--$1.25.

[Illustration]

"A most charming series of stories for children--yes, and for children
of all ages, both young and old--is given us in the volume before us. The
hundreds who have purchased it at our office are surprised that it can
be made so well and sold so cheap. It is easy to operate, almost
noiseless, very strong, all iron and elegantly ornamented. It has a
powerful Drill always in motion; a Tilting Table that can be adjusted
in a moment by a thumb screw. It is the greatest mechanical invention
in the art of Bracket Sawing ever produced.

Any boy with a little mechanical skill can earn one or more dollars per
day, and thus pay for his machine in a little time. We cannot praise the
Holly Scroll Saw too much.

ON RECEIPT OF $3, which is the price of the Holly Scroll Saw with
the Drill, we will give free the following valuable list of articles.

With this Saw and these splendid Designs any boy or girl ought to
make enough money to clothe themselves for a year, besides filling
their homes with beautiful articles for ornament and use.

1 Design for a $5 Queen Anne Clock.
1 Design for a $2.50 Princess Wall-Pocket.
1 Design for a $3 Eastlake Book-Shelf.
1 Design for a $2 Eastlake Foot-Rest.
1 Design for a $1.15 Eastlake Bracket.
1 Design for a $2 Slipper Holder.

Designs for $50 worth of Brackets.

200 Miniature Designs.

       5 Silhouette Designs.

1 Sheet Impression Paper.
12 Best Steel Saw Blades.
2 Best Drill Points.
1 Illustrated Manual of Fret Sawing and Wood Carving.

_If you desire to know more about it before purchasing, please send
us two three-cent stamps and the names of four persons who you think
will be interested in Bracket Sawing, and we will send full description
and 10 full size, new and elegant Bracket Designs._ 
DESCRIPTION.

--It is 33 inches high, and has 18 inches swing.

Speed from 800 to 1000 strokes per minute, and has a two-inch stroke.

  

       

Gatty's well-known 'Parables from Nature,' written
in the best of English, as fascinating as fairy tales, and yet 'really
true,' a quality which we all know appeals to the childish mind."--_N.
Y. Evangelist._

"We have seen nothing better for its purpose, and hope many a teacher of
kindergartens and many a mother may avail herself of the privilege of
using these little tales."--_N.Y. Christian Advocate._

"It will be a great advance in the work of education in the school and
the home when such books are more generally utilized."--_Zion's Herald._

"These charming stories of field life will delight many a child of
kindergarten age; and it is safe to say that older brothers and sisters
will also want to claim a share in them."--_Christian Register._

       *       *       *       *       *

Sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.

  E. P. DUTTON & CO., Publishers,

  31 West 23d Street, New York.