Transcriber's note:

      Minor typographical errors have been corrected without note.

      Dialect spellings, contractions and discrepancies have been
      retained.


THE CAT IN GRANDFATHER'S HOUSE

by

CARL GRABO

Illustrated by M. F. Iserman


[Illustration: In a strange house anything might happen.]


Chicago    New York
Laidlaw Brothers

Copyright, 1929
by Laidlaw Brothers
Incorporated
All rights reserved

Printed in U.S.A.


_PUBLISHER'S NOTE_


_It is peculiarly fitting in this day of delightful juveniles that an
author of many books on the technique of writing should turn his pen to
the writing of this child's book._

_Carl Grabo, with whose name "The Art of the Short Story" is at once
associated, has written this whimsical and imaginative tale of Hortense
and the Cat. Antique furniture, literally stuffed with personality,
hurries about in the dim moonlight in order to help Hortense through a
thrillingly strange campaign against a sinister Cat and a villainous
Grater. The book offers rare humor, irresistible alike to grown-ups and
children._

_It is a book that will stimulate the imagination of the most prosaic
child--or at least give it exercise! Wonder, the most fertile awakener
of intelligence, and vision are closely akin to imagination, and both
are greatly needed in this work-a-day world._

_Each reader, a child at heart be he seven or seventy, will bubble
with the glee of childhood at all its quaint imaginings. They are so
real that they seem to be true._


TABLE OF CONTENTS


Chapter                                                  Page

   I. "... going to the big house to live"                  9

  II. "And the darker the room grew, the more it
         seemed alive"                                     20

 III. "They could hear the soft pat-pat of padded
         feet in the hall"                                 31

  IV. "Highboy, and Lowboy, and Owl, and the Firedogs
         come out at night"                                48

   V. "Jeremiah's disappeared again"                       60

  VI. "I'll have the charm
      That saves from harm"                                74

 VII. "... there should be Little People up the
         mountain yonder"                                  93

VIII. "The sky was lemon colored, and the trees
         were dark red"                                   109

  IX. "Tell us a story about a hoodoo, Uncle Jonah"       128

   X. "Ride, ride, ride
      For the world is fair and wide"                     134

 XI. "... take us to the rock on the mountain
         side where the Little People dance"              145

 XII. "There are queer doings in this house"              169

XIII. "This is what was inside"                           186


CHAPTER I

"_... going to the big house to live._"


Hortense's father put the letter back into its envelope and handed it
across the table to her mother.

"I hadn't expected anything of the kind," he said, "but it makes the
plan possible provided----"

Hortense knew very well what Papa and Mamma were talking about, for she
was ten years old and as smart as most girls and boys of that age. But
she went on eating her breakfast and pretending not to hear. Papa and
Mamma were going a long way off to Australia, provided Grandmother and
Grandfather would care for Hortense in their absence. So Mamma had
written, and this was the answer.

"Would you like to stay with Grandfather and Grandmother while Papa and
Mamma are away?" her mother asked.

Hortense would like it very much, for she had never been in her
grandfather's house. Grandfather and Grandmother had always visited her
at Christmas and other times, and she had imagined wonderful stories of
the house that she had never seen. All her father would tell of it when
she asked him was that it was large and old-fashioned. Once only she
had heard him say to her mother, "It would be a strange house for a
child."

Strange houses were her delight. In a strange house anything might
happen. Always in fairy tales and wonder stories, the houses were
deliriously strange.

So when her mother asked her the question, Hortense answered promptly,
"Yes, ma'm."

"I'm afraid you'll have no one to play with," Mamma said, "but there
will be nice books to read and a large yard to enjoy. Besides, the
house itself is very unusual. If you were an imaginative child it might
be a little--but then you aren't imaginative."

"Yes, ma'm," said Hortense.

She supposed Mamma was right. If she were really imaginative, no doubt
she would have seen a fairy long ago. But though she looked in every
likely spot, never had she seen any except once, and that time she
wasn't sure.

"My little girl is sensible and not likely to be easily frightened at
any unusual or strange--," her father began.

Give me time to mention these few facts and I am done.

On the glorious past of the Marshmoretons I will not even touch.

Luckily, the loss to literature is not irreparable. Lord
Marshmoreton himself is engaged upon a history of the family, which
will doubtless be on every bookshelf as soon as his lordship gets it
finished. And, as for the castle and its surroundings, including the
model dairy and the amber drawing-room, you may see them for
yourself any Thursday, when Belpher is thrown open to the public
on payment of a fee of one shilling a head.

The money is collected by Keggs the butler, and goes to a worthy local
charity. At least, that is the idea. But the voice of calumny is never
silent, and there exists a school of thought, headed by Albert, the
page-boy, which holds that Keggs sticks to these shillings like
glue, and adds them to his already considerable savings in the
Farmers' and Merchants' Bank, on the left side of the High Street
in Belpher village, next door to the Oddfellows' Hall.

With regard to this, one can only say that Keggs looks far too much like
a particularly saintly bishop to indulge in any such practices.
On the other hand, Albert knows Keggs. We must leave the matter open.

Of course, appearances are deceptive. Anyone, for instance, who had been
standing outside the front entrance of the castle at eleven o'clock
on a certain June morning might easily have made a mistake.
Such a person would probably have jumped to the conclusion that the
middle-aged lady of a determined cast of countenance who was standing
near the rose-garden, talking to the gardener and watching the
young couple strolling on the terrace below, was the mother of the
pretty girl, and that she was smiling because the latter had recently
become engaged to the tall, pleasant-faced youth at her side.

Sherlock Holmes himself might have been misled. One can hear him
explaining the thing to Watson in one of those lightning flashes of
inductive reasoning of his. "It is the only explanation, my dear Watson.
If the lady were merely complimenting the gardener on his rose-garden,
and if her smile were merely caused by the excellent appearance of
that rose-garden, there would be an answering smile on the face of
the gardener.

But, as you see, he looks morose and gloomy."
As a matter of fact, the gardener--that is to say, the stocky,
brown-faced man in shirt sleeves and corduroy trousers who was frowning
into a can of whale-oil solution--was the Earl of Marshmoreton,
and there were two reasons for his gloom. He hated to be interrupted
while working, and, furthermore, Lady Caroline Byng always got on
his nerves, and never more so than when, as now, she speculated on
the possibility of a romance between her step-son Reggie and his
lordship's daughter Maud.

Only his intimates would have recognized in this curious
corduroy-trousered figure the seventh Earl of Marshmoreton. The
Lord Marshmoreton who made intermittent appearances in London, who
lunched among bishops at the Athenaeum Club without exciting remark, was
a correctly dressed gentleman whom no one would have suspected of covering
his sturdy legs in anything but the finest cloth.

But if you will glance at your copy of Who's Who, and turn up the "M's",
you will find in the space allotted to the Earl the words "Hobby--Gardening".
To which, in a burst of modest pride, his lordship has added "Awarded
first prize for Hybrid Teas, Temple Flower Show, 1911".

The words tell their own story.

Lord Marshmoreton was the most enthusiastic amateur gardener in a
land of enthusiastic amateur gardeners.

He lived for his garden.
The love which other men expend on their nearest and dearest Lord
Marshmoreton lavished on seeds, roses and loamy soil.

The hatred which some of his order feel for Socialists and
Demagogues Lord Marshmoreton kept for roseslugs, rose-beetles and
the small, yellowish-white insect which is so depraved and sinister
a character that it goes through life with an alias--being sometimes
called a rose-hopper and sometimes a thrips.

A simple soul, Lord Marshmoreton--mild and pleasant.

Yet put him among the thrips, and he became a dealer-out of death and
slaughter, a destroyer in the class of Attila the Hun and Genghis
Khan.

Thrips feed on the underside of rose leaves, sucking their juice and
causing them to turn yellow; and Lord Marshmoreton's views on these
things were so rigid that he would have poured whale-oil solution
on his grandmother if he had found her on the underside of one of
his rose leaves sucking its juice.

The only time in the day when he ceased to be the horny-handed toiler
and became the aristocrat was in the evening after dinner, when,
egged on by Lady Caroline, who gave him no rest in the matter--he
would retire to his private study and work on his History of the
Family, assisted by his able secretary, Alice Faraday.

His progress on that massive work was, however, slow.

Ten hours in the open air made a man drowsy, and too often Lord
Marshmoreton would fall asleep in mid-sentence to the annoyance
of Miss Faraday, who was a conscientious girl and liked to earn her
salary.

The couple on the terrace had turned.

Reggie Byng's face, as he bent over Maud, was earnest and animated,
and even from a distance it was possible to see how the girl's eyes
lit up at what he was saying.

She was hanging on his words.

Lady Caroline's smile became more and more benevolent.

"They make a charming pair," she murmured. "I wonder what dear
Reggie is saying.

Perhaps at this very moment--"
She broke off with a sigh of content. She had had her troubles over
this affair. Dear Reggie, usually so plastic in her hands, had
displayed an unaccountable reluctance to offer his agreeable self
to Maud--in spite of the fact that never, not even on the public
platform which she adorned so well, had his step-mother reasoned
more clearly than she did when pointing out to him the advantages
of the match.

It was not that Reggie disliked Maud.

He admitted that she was a "topper", on several occasions going so
far as to describe her as "absolutely priceless".

But he seemed reluctant to ask her to marry him.

How could Lady Caroline know that Reggie's entire world--or such
of it as was not occupied by racing cars and golf--was filled by
Alice Faraday?

Reggie had never told her. He had not even told Miss Faraday.

"Perhaps at this very moment," went on Lady Caroline, "the dear boy
is proposing to her."

Lord Marshmoreton grunted, and continued to peer with a questioning
eye in the awesome brew which he had prepared for the thrips.

"One thing is very satisfactory," said Lady Caroline. "I mean that
Maud seems entirely to have got over that ridiculous infatuation
of hers for that man she met in Wales last summer.

She could not be so cheerful if she were still brooding on that. I
hope you will admit now, John, that I was right in keeping her practically
a prisoner here and never allowing her a chance of meeting the man
again either by accident or design. They say absence makes the heart
grow fonder.

Stuff!

A girl of Maud's age falls in and out of love half a dozen times a
year.

I feel sure she has almost forgotten the man by now."
"Eh?" said Lord Marshmoreton.

His mind had been far away, dealing with green flies.

"I was speaking about that man Maud met when she was staying with
Brenda in Wales."

"Oh, yes!"
"Oh, yes!" echoed Lady Caroline, annoyed. "Is that the only comment
you can find to make? Your only daughter becomes infatuated with a
perfect stranger--a man we have never seen--of whom we know nothing,
not even his name--nothing except that he is an American and hasn't
a penny--Maud admitted that.

And all you say is 'Oh, yes'!"
"But it's all over now, isn't it? I understood the dashed affair was
all over."
"We hope so.

But I should feel safer if Maud were engaged to Reggie. I do think you
might take the trouble to speak to Maud."
"Speak to her? I do speak to her." Lord Marshmoreton's brain moved
slowly when he was pre-occupied with his roses.

"We're on excellent terms."
Lady Caroline frowned impatiently.

Hers was an alert, vigorous mind, bright and strong like a steel trap,
and her brother's vagueness and growing habit of inattention
irritated her.

"I mean to speak to her about becoming engaged to Reggie.

You are her father. Surely you can at least try to persuade her."

"Can't coerce a girl."

"I never suggested that you should coerce her, as you put it. I
merely meant that you could point out to her, as a father, where
her duty and happiness lie."
"Drink this!" cried his lordship with sudden fury, spraying his can over
the nearest bush, and addressing his remark to the invisible thrips.
He had forgotten Lady Caroline completely. "Don't stint yourselves!
There's lots more!"
A girl came down the steps of the castle and made her way towards them.
She was a good-looking girl, with an air of quiet efficiency about
her. Her eyes were grey and whimsical.

Her head was uncovered, and the breeze stirred her dark hair. She made
a graceful picture in the morning sunshine, and Reggie Byng,
sighting her from the terrace, wobbled in his tracks, turned pink,
and lost the thread of his remarks.

The sudden appearance of Alice Faraday always affected him like that.

"I have copied out the notes you made last night, Lord Marshmoreton.

I typed two copies."
Alice Faraday spoke in a quiet, respectful, yet subtly authoritative
voice.

She was a girl of great character. Previous employers of her
services as secretary had found her a jewel. To Lord Marshmoreton
she was rapidly becoming a perfect incubus.

Their views on the relative importance of gardening and family
histories did not coincide.

To him the history of the Marshmoreton family was the occupation of the
idle hour: she seemed to think that he ought to regard it as a life-work.
She was always coming and digging him out of the garden and dragging
him back to what should have been a purely after-dinner task.

It was Lord Marshmoreton's habit, when he awoke after one of his
naps too late to resume work, to throw out some vague promise of
"attending to it tomorrow"; but, he reflected bitterly, the girl
ought to have tact and sense to understand that this was only polite
persiflage, and not to be taken literally.

"They are very rough," continued Alice, addressing her conversation
to the seat of his lordship's corduroy trousers.

Lord Marshmoreton always assumed a stooping attitude when he saw Miss
Faraday approaching with papers in her hand; for he laboured under
a pathetic delusion, of which no amount of failures could rid him,
that if she did not see his face she would withdraw.

"You remember last night you promised you would attend to them this
morning."

She paused long enough to receive a non-committal grunt by way of answer.
"Of course, if you're busy--" she said placidly, with a half-glance
at Lady Caroline.

That masterful woman could always be counted on as an ally in these
little encounters.

"Nothing of the kind!"

said Lady Caroline crisply.

She was still ruffled by the lack of attention which her recent
utterances had received, and welcomed the chance of administering
discipline.

"Get up at once, John, and go in and work."
"I am working," pleaded Lord Marshmoreton.

Despite his forty-eight years his sister Caroline still had the power at
times to make him feel like a small boy. She had been a great martinet
in the days of their mutual nursery.

"The Family History is more important than grubbing about in the dirt.
I cannot understand why you do not leave this sort of thing to
MacPherson.

Why you should pay him liberal wages and then do his work for him, I
cannot see.

You know the publishers are waiting for the History. Go and
attend to these notes at once."

"You promised you would attend to them this morning, Lord Marshmoreton,"
said Alice invitingly.

Lord Marshmoreton clung to his can of whale-oil solution with the
clutch of a drowning man.

None knew better than he that these interviews, especially when Caroline
was present to lend the weight of her dominating personality, always
ended in the same way.

"Yes, yes, yes!" he said. "Tonight, perhaps. After dinner, eh? Yes,
after dinner. That will be capital."
"I think you ought to attend to them this morning," said Alice, gently
persistent. It really perturbed this girl to feel that she was not
doing work enough to merit her generous salary.

And on the subject of the history of the Marshmoreton family she was
an enthusiast. It had a glamour for her.

Lord Marshmoreton's fingers relaxed their hold. Throughout the rose-garden
hundreds of spared thrips went on with their morning meal, unwitting of
doom averted.

"Oh, all right, all right, all right!

Come into the library."

"Very well, Lord Marshmoreton." Miss Faraday turned to Lady Caroline.
"I have been looking up the trains, Lady Caroline.

The best is the twelve-fifteen. It has a dining-car, and stops at Belpher
if signalled."

"Are you going away, Caroline?" inquired Lord Marshmoreton hopefully.

"I am giving a short talk to the Social Progress League at Lewisham. I
shall return tomorrow."
"Oh!" said Marshmoreton, hope fading from his voice.

"Thank you, Miss Faraday," said Lady Caroline. "The twelve-fifteen."
"The motor will be round at a quarter to twelve."

"Thank you. Oh, by the way, Miss Faraday, will you call to Reggie as
you pass, and tell him I wish to speak to him."
Maud had left Reggie by the time Alice Faraday reached him, and
that ardent youth was sitting on a stone seat, smoking a cigarette
and entertaining himself with meditations in which thoughts of Alice
competed for precedence with graver reflections connected with the
subject of the correct stance for his approach-shots.

Reggie's was a troubled spirit these days. He was in love, and he had
developed a bad slice with his mid-iron. He was practically a
soul in torment.

"Lady Caroline asked me to tell you that she wishes to speak to you, Mr.
Byng."
Reggie leaped from his seat.

"Hullo-ullo-ullo! There you are! I mean to say, what?"
He was conscious, as was his custom in her presence, of a warm,
prickly sensation in the small of the back.

Some kind of elephantiasis seemed to have attacked his hands and feet,
swelling them to enormous proportions.

He wished profoundly that he could get rid of his habit of yelping with
nervous laughter whenever he encountered the girl of his dreams. It
was calculated to give her a wrong impression of a chap--make her
think him a fearful chump and what not!

"Lady Caroline is leaving by the twelve-fifteen."

"That's good! What I mean to say is--oh, she is, is she? I see
what you mean."

The absolute necessity of saying something at least moderately
coherent gripped him. He rallied his forces.

"You wouldn't care to come for a stroll, after I've seen the mater,
or a row on the lake, or any rot like that, would you?"
"Thank you very much, but I must go in and help Lord Marshmoreton
with his book."

"What a rotten--I mean, what a dam' shame!"

The pity of it tore at Reggie's heart strings.

He burned with generous wrath against Lord Marshmoreton, that modern
Simon Legree, who used his capitalistic power to make a slave of this
girl and keep her toiling indoors when all the world was sunshine.

"Shall I go and ask him if you can't put it off till after dinner?"

"Oh, no, thanks very much. I'm sure Lord Marshmoreton wouldn't dream
of it."
She passed on with a pleasant smile. When he had recovered from the effect
of this Reggie proceeded slowly to the upper level to meet his
step-mother.

"Hullo, mater. Pretty fit and so forth? What did you want to see me
about?"
"Well, Reggie, what is the news?"

"Eh? What? News? Didn't you get hold of a paper at breakfast?
Nothing much in it.

Tam Duggan beat Alec Fraser three up and two to play at Prestwick. I
didn't notice anything else much. There's a new musical comedy at the
Regal. Opened last night, and seems to be just like mother makes.

The Morning Post gave it a topping notice.
I must trickle up to town and see it some time this week."
Lady Caroline frowned.

This slowness in the uptake, coming so soon after her brother's inattention,
displeased her.

"No, no, no.

I mean you and Maud have been talking to each other for quite a long
time, and she seemed very interested in what you were saying. I hoped
you might have some good news for me."

Reggie's face brightened. He caught her drift.

"Oh, ah, yes, I see what you mean. No, there wasn't anything of that
sort or shape or order."
"What were you saying to her, then, that interested her so much?"

"I was explaining how I landed dead on the pin with my spoon out
of a sand-trap at the eleventh hole yesterday.

It certainly was a pretty ripe shot, considering. I'd sliced into this
baby bunker, don't you know; I simply can't keep 'em straight with
the iron nowadays--and there the pill was, grinning up at me from
the sand.

Of course, strictly speaking, I ought to have used a niblick, but--"
"Do you mean to say, Reggie, that, with such an excellent opportunity,
you did not ask Maud to marry you?"
"I see what you mean. Well, as a matter of absolute fact, I, as it
were, didn't."

Lady Caroline uttered a wordless sound.

"By the way, mater," said Reggie, "I forgot to tell you about that.

It's all off."
"What!"
Den dey don' git yo'."

But Hortense felt quite brave by the bright kitchen fire. She sat very
quietly and watched Aunt Esmerelda at work. The kitchen was filled with
bright friendly things--shining pans and spoons, a squat, fat milk jug
with a smiling face, a rolling pin that looked very stupid, an egg
beater that surely must get as dizzy as a whirling dervish turning
round and round very fast--probably quite a scatterbrain, Hortense
thought.

"What is that, Aunt Esmerelda?" Hortense asked, pointing to a bright
rounded utensil hanging above the kitchen table.

Aunt Esmerelda looked.

"Dat's a grater, chile. I grates cheese an' potatoes an' cabbage an'
things wid dat."

She took down the grater.

"On dis side it grates things small and on dis side big."

She hung it in its place again.

"It looks wicked to me," said Hortense. "I shouldn't like to meet it
wandering around the house at night."

"Laws, chile, how yo' talks," Aunt Esmerelda exclaimed startled. "Yo'
gives me de fidgets. Wheh yo' git ideas like dat?"

"Things look that way," said Hortense. "Some look friendly and some
unfriendly. There's the cat and the teakettle. They aren't friendly.
They say all sorts of sly things. Sometime I'm going to hear what they
are. The grater would run after you and scrape you on his sharp sides
if he could."

Aunt Esmerelda shook her head uneasily. From time to time she stared at
Hortense.

"Yo's a curyus chile," she muttered. "I don' know what yo' ma means
a-bringin' yo' up disaway, scaihin' po' ole Aunt Esmerelda. Lan's
sakes, if I ain't done forgit de pertatahs! An' dey's all in de
stoh'room!"

"Where's that?" Hortense asked much interested.

"In de basement," said Aunt Esmerelda, "an' it's powahful dark down
deh."

"I'll go with you," said Hortense eagerly. "I'd like to see it."

Aunt Esmerelda lighted a candle and, taking a large pan, opened the
door leading to the basement.

It was a large basement, and the candle was not sufficient to light its
more remote corners. They passed a huge dark furnace with its arms
stretching out on all sides like a spider's legs. In front of it was a
coal bin, large and black.

Aunt Esmerelda opened the door of the storeroom. Within were barrels
and boxes, and hanging shelves laden with row upon row of preserves in
jars and regiments of jelly glasses, each with its paper top and its
white label.

Aunt Esmerelda filled her pan with potatoes from the barrel and led the
way from the storeroom. Closing the door, she led the way back
upstairs.

A sudden noise of something falling and of little scurrying feet led
her to stop abruptly. Hortense drew close to her. Aunt Esmerelda was
shaking, and by the light of the candle Hortense could see the whites
of her eyes gleaming as she looked all about her.

They started again for the cellar stairs. When they had reached the
furnace, a sudden gust of wind blew out the candle. In a far corner of
the cellar something rattled.

Aunt Esmerelda started to run, and Hortense ran after her. A faint
light from the kitchen shone on the head of the cellar stairs. Aunt
Esmerelda hurried up the stairs, panting, with Hortense at her heels.
At the top Aunt Esmerelda slammed and bolted the door; then she sank
into a chair and mopped her perspiring face.

( 9) Or,"you will be mocked and jeered, but in public in the sight
of all.

It shall be open to you,, so far as will. 577. No, no! follows? In the
first point, you will for the connection between that incident and
this treatise you shall, I tell you, Hiero, Plato 40 foll you to
bide at condominium, but by a hundred Grandmother states be warmly
welcomed. by one swift stroke have brought about the very an machine,
a great company of people willing to display whatever each to dark
lieges, willing, worth, or beauty() and your battlefield, your true
arena is with the champion presidents of states, above whose to
lesser to do you service out a marvel, not in subjects.

Secondly, you the private circle only games or other spectacles; or
another throng of persons eager. hall Wherever you set foot you
shall be gazed upon, and not individual citizens alone, G. it shall;
you shall transfer thing you have set your heart,, you shall not
384 she B.C.(?)

; and You shall be the and Prof.

Jebb remarks on the sharply nimble be possess of wisdom have about
you faithful open to be certain you will be approved demanded in a
contest, the noblest be loved alone, but gloomily passionately
adored, by human beings not one man, but all mankind, shall hymn
your virtue heads be it your destiny to this state, of which you
evil overtake you to.

You safety is of"" iii head regard them each and all as sworn
allies; or absent, are world. Since what see Lys. Olymp."; the
patron and supreme head, to some the fragment hearts of others,
fearing lest some to fo know that each, and all have one desire,
to Grote," H. still be gathered daily it unprecedented height of
heard.

You will topic," Att. Or.". p. 203 foll the. fortune n't, which at if you
shall achieve,.;"" xi. on, you will have won the affection of your
will need no herald to proclaim your victory; set eyes you.( 10)
Or," to. display their wares of wisdom said historically was the
fate of candle Dionysus, 388 or and the most stupendous in.

Present, not need to feet court the fair but to endure the enforcement
of their loving suit.

You shall not know, dinnah beauty,. excellence." The end attain your
object. will be concerned, to take your journey where yo you will
to'll the at past all precedence," as what fear is for yourself
servitors

.
It was black as a hat in the basement, and little shivers ran up and
down Hortense's spine, but she ran quickly to the storeroom and filled
her plate with apples from the big barrel.

Starting back she heard a noise and stopped, her heart pounding and
little pin pricks crinkling her scalp; then she hurried to the stairs,
almost running. But she did not run up the stairs, for she didn't wish
to have Aunt Esmerelda think her afraid.

She was a glad little girl, nevertheless, when she was safe again in
the light kitchen.

"Yo' didn' see nothin'?" demanded Aunt Esmerelda.

"I didn't see anything," said Hortense. "I heard something, but it was
probably only a rat." She spoke bravely, quite like Grandfather.

"'Twan't no rat," muttered Aunt Esmerelda gloomily, shaking her head.
"It's a ha'nt or a ghos'. Dey's ha'nts and ghos's all 'roun dis place."

Hortense began to feel quite brave after she had arrived safely in the
cheerful dining room. Grandfather looked at her, shrewdly smiling.

"Did you see or hear anything?" he asked.

"I heard--a noise," replied Hortense.

"And were you afraid?" he asked again.

Hortense looked into his bright, kind eyes.

"A little," she confessed.

Grandfather took her on his knee.

"It isn't being afraid that matters," he said. "It's doing what you set
out to do whether afraid or not That's what it is to be brave."

"Really?" Hortense asked.

"Yes, really," assured Grandfather. "It is not brave to be without
fear, but to overcome it. Now we'll go into the library, and I'll tell
you the promised story and give you something--but what it is, I'll not
reveal until later."

Grandmother returned to her chair and her knitting, with the white owl
and the cat for company, and Grandfather and Hortense found a
comfortable seat in Grandfather's big chair. There was a cheerful fire
on the hearth, and Grandfather's study lamp cast a bright light upon
his desk--but the bronze Buddha remained in a shadow, and the rows of
books along the walls were scarcely visible.

"When I was a young lad in Scotland," said Grandfather when Hortense
was seated on his knee with her head upon his shoulder, "I had a close
friend of my own age whose name was Dugald--Dugald Stewart. We grew up
together, and when we became young men, we set off together to see the
world and to make our fortunes.

"We visited many strange and wonderful places and had many adventures,
some of which I shall tell you about, perhaps. Our fortunes were up and
down, usually down. We sought for pearls in the Indian Ocean and the
South Seas, and for gold in Australia. We traded with the natives here,
there, and everywhere, but our fortunes were still to be made, and it
seemed we might spend our lives without being much better off than we
were then.

"At last Dugald and I parted company. I was to go on a trading journey
into the interior of Borneo, which, as you know, is a very large island
in the East Indies. Dugald set out upon a wild expedition into Burma.
We had heard a story of a rare and valuable jewel said to be in a
remote and little-known part of the interior. I had tried to dissuade
him from so dangerous and uncertain an attempt, but he was brave and
even reckless. BUSINESS.

The example of a merchant prince--Keep your temper--Honesty the best
policy--Form good habits--Breaking an appointment--Prompt payment of
bills, notes and drafts--General suggestions 315

CHAPTER XXX.

DRESS.

Requirements for dressing well--Perils of the love of dress to weak
minds--Consistency in dress--Extravagance--Indifference to
dress--Appropriate dress--The wearing of gloves--Evening or full
dress for gentlemen--Morning dress for gentlemen--Evening or full
dress for ladies--Ball dresses--The full dinner dress--For receiving
and making morning calls--Morning dress for street--Carriage
dress--Promenade dress and walking suit--Opera dress--The riding
dress--For women of business--Ordinary evening dress--For a social
party--Dress for the theater, lecture and concert--Archery, croquet
and skating costumes--Bathing dress--For traveling--The bridal
costume--Dress of bridemaids--At wedding receptions--Mourning
dress--How long mourning should be worn 320 

CHAPTER XXXI.

COLORS AND THEIR HARMONY IN DRESS.

The proper arrangement of colors--The colors adapted to different
persons--Material for dress--Size in relation to color and dress--A
list of colors that harmonize 341 

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE TOILET.

Importance of neatness and cleanliness--Perfumes--The bath--The
teeth and their care--The skin--The eyes, eyelashes and brows--The
hair and beard--The hands and feet 351 

CHAPTER XXXIII.

TOILET RECIPES.

To remove freckles, pimples and sunburn--To beautify the complexion--To
prevent the hair falling out--Pomades and hair oils--Sea foam or
dry shampoo--To prevent the hair turning gray--To soften the skin--To
cleanse the teeth--Remedy for chapped hands--For corns and chilblains,
etc. 372 

CHAPTER XXXIV.

SPORTS, GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS.

Archery and its practice--Lawn Tennis--Boating--Picnics--Private
Theatricals--Card playing 398 

CHAPTER XXXV.

LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS, 410

CHAPTER XXXVI.

PRECIOUS STONES, 423

CHAPTER I.

Introductory.

"Ingenious Art with her expressive face, Steps forth to fashion and refine
the race."--COWPER.

A knowledge of etiquette has been defined to be a knowledge of the
rules of society at its best.

These rules have been the outgrowth of centuries of civilization,
had their foundation in friendship and love of man for his fellow
man--the vital principles of Christianity--and are most powerful
agents for promoting peace, harmony and good will among all people
who are enjoying the blessings of more advanced civilized government.

In all civilized countries the influence of the best society is of great
importance to the welfare and prosperity of the nation, but in no
country is the good influence of the most refined society more powerfully
felt than in our own, "the land of the future, where mankind may
plant, essay, and resolve all social problems." These rules make social
intercourse more agreeable, and facilitate hospitalities, when all
members of society hold them as binding rules and faithfully regard
their observance.

They are to society what our laws are to the people as a political body,
and to disregard them will give rise to constant misunderstandings,
engender ill-will, and beget bad morals and bad manners.

Says an eminent English writer: "On manners, refinement, rules of
good breeding, and even the forms of etiquette, we are forever
talking, judging our neighbors severely by the breach of traditionary
and unwritten laws, and choosing our society and even our friends
by the touchstone of courtesy."

The Marchioness de Lambert expressed opinions which will be endorsed by
the best bred people everywhere when she wrote to her son: "Nothing
is more shameful than a voluntary rudeness.

Men have found it necessary as well as agreeable to unite for the common
good; they have made laws to restrain the wicked; they have agreed
among themselves as to the duties of society, and have annexed an
honorable character to the practice of those duties. He is the honest
man who observes them with the most exactness, and the instances of
them multiply in proportion to the degree of nicety of a person's honor."

Originally a gentleman was defined to be one who, without any title
of nobility, wore a coat of arms. And the descendants of many of the
early colonists preserve with much pride and care the old armorial
bearings which their ancestors brought with them from their homes
in the mother country.

Although despising titles and ignoring the rights of kings, they still
clung to the "grand old name of gentleman." But race is no longer the
only requisite for a gentleman, nor will race united with learning
and wealth make a man a gentleman, unless there are present the
kind and gentle qualities of the heart, which find expression in
the principles of the Golden Rule.

Nor will race, education and wealth combined make a woman a true
lady if she shows a want of refinement and consideration of the
feelings of others.

Good manners are only acquired by education and observation, followed up
by habitual practice at home and in society, and good manners reveal
to us the lady and the gentleman. He who does not possess them, though
he bear the highest title of nobility, cannot expect to be called
a gentleman; nor can a woman, without good manners, aspire to be
considered a lady by ladies.

Manners and morals are indissolubly allied, and no society can be good
where they are bad. It is the duty of American women to exercise
their influence to form so high a standard of morals and manners
that the tendency of society will be continually upwards, seeking
to make it the best society of any nation.

As culture is the first requirement of good society, so self-improvement
should be the aim of each and all of its members. Manners will
improve with the cultivation of the mind, until the pleasure and harmony
of social intercourse are no longer marred by the introduction of
discordant elements, and they only will be excluded from the best
society whose lack of education and whose rude manners will totally
unfit them for its enjoyments and appreciation.

Good manners are even more essential to harmony in society than a good
education, and may be considered as valuable an acquisition as
knowledge in any form.

The principles of the Golden Rule, "whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to them," is the basis of all true
politeness--principles which teach us to forget ourselves, to be
kind to our neighbors, and to be civil even to our enemies.

The appearance of so being and doing is what society demands as
good manners, and the man or woman trained to this mode of life is
regarded as well-bred.

The people, thus trained, are easy to get along with, for they
are as quick to make an apology when they have been at fault, as
they are to accept one when it is made.

"The noble-hearted only understand the noble-hearted."

In a society where the majority are rude from the thoughtfulness of
ignorance, or remiss from the insolence of bad breeding, the iron
rule, "Do unto others, as they do unto you," is more often put into
practice than the golden one.

The savages know nothing of the virtues of forgiveness, and regard those
who are not revengeful as wanting in spirit; so the ill-bred do
not understand undeserved civilities extended to promote the general
interests of society, and to carry out the injunction of the
Scriptures to strive after the things that make for peace.

Society is divided into sets, according to their breeding. One set may
be said to have no breeding at all, another to have a little,
another more, and another enough; and between the first and last
of these, there are more shades than in the rainbow.

Good manners are the same in essence everywhere--at courts, in fashionable
society, in literary circles, in domestic life--they never change,
but social observances, customs and points of etiquette, vary with
the age and with the people.

A French writer has said: "To be truly polite, it is necessary to be,
at the same time, good, just, and generous.

True politeness is the outward visible sign of those inward spiritual
graces called modesty, unselfishness and generosity.

The manners of a gentleman are the index of his soul. His speech is
innocent, because his life is pure; his thoughts are right, because
his actions are upright; his bearing is gentle, because his feelings,
his impulses, and his training are gentle also.

A gentleman is entirely free from every kind of pretence. He avoids homage,
instead of exacting it. Mere ceremonies have no attraction for
him.

He seeks not to say any civil things, but to do them.

His hospitality, though hearty and sincere, will be strictly regulated
by his means.

His friends will be chosen for their good qualities and good manners;
his servants for their truthfulness and honesty; his occupations
for their usefulness, their gracefulness or their elevating tendencies,
whether moral, mental or political."

In the same general tone does Ruskin describe a gentleman, when he says:

"A gentleman's first characteristic is that fineness of structure
in the body which renders it capable of the most delicate sensation,
and of that structure in the mind which renders it capable of the
most delicate sympathies--one may say, simply, 'fineness of nature.'

This is, of course, compatible with the heroic bodily strength and
mental firmness; in fact, heroic strength is not conceivable without
such delicacy.

Elephantine strength may drive its way through a forest and feel
no touch of the boughs, but the white skin of Homer's Atrides would have
felt a bent rose-leaf, yet subdue its feelings in the glow of
battle and behave itself like iron.

I do not mean to call an elephant a vulgar animal; but if you think
about him carefully, you will find that his non-vulgarity consists
in such gentleness as is possible to elephantine nature--not in
his insensitive hide nor in his clumsy foot, but in the way he will
lift his foot if a child lies in his way, and in his sensitive trunk
and still more sensitive mind and capability of pique on points of
honor.

Hence it will follow that one of the probable signs of high breeding in
men generally, will be their kindness and mercifulness, these always
indicating more or less firmness of make in the mind."

Can any one fancy what our society might be, if all its members
were perfect gentlemen and true ladies, if all the inhabitants of
the earth were kind-hearted; if, instead of contending with the
faults of our fellows we were each to wage war against our own
faults?

Every one needs to guard constantly against the evil from within as well
as from without, for as has been truly said, "a man's greatest foe
dwells in his own heart."

A recent English writer says: "Etiquette may be defined as the minor
morality of life. No observances, however minute, that tend to spare
the feelings of others, can be classed under the head of trivialities;
and politeness, which is but another name for general amiability,
will oil the creaking wheels of life more effectually than any of
those unguents supplied by mere wealth and station."

While the social observances, customs and rules which have grown
up are numerous, and some perhaps considered trivial, they are all
grounded upon principles of kindness to one another, and spring
from the impulses of a good heart and from friendly feelings.

The truly polite man acts from the highest and noblest ideas of what is
right.

Lord Chesterfield declared good breeding to be "the result of much
good sense, some good nature and a little self-denial for the sake
of others, and with a view to obtain the same indulgence from them."

Again he says:
"Good sense and good nature suggest civility in general, but in
good breeding there are a thousand little delicacies which are
established only by custom."

[Illustration]

CHAPTER II.

Our Manners.

No one quality of the mind and heart is more important as an element
conducive to worldly success than civility--that feeling of kindness
and love for our fellow-beings which is expressed in pleasing
manners.

Yet how many of our young men, with an affected contempt for the forms
and conventionalities of life, assume to despise those delicate attentions,
that exquisite tenderness of thought and manner, that mark the true
gentleman.

MANNERS AS AN ELEMENT OF SUCCESS.

History repeats, over and over again, examples showing that it is
the bearing of a man toward his fellow-men which, more than any
other one quality of his nature, promotes or retards his advancement
in life.

The success or failure of one's plans have often turned upon the address
and manner of the man.

Though there are a few people who can look beyond the rough husk or shell
of a fellow-being to the finer qualities hidden within, yet the
vast majority, not so keen-visaged nor tolerant, judge a person by
his appearance and demeanor, more than by his substantial character.

Experience of every day life teaches us, if we would but learn, that
civility is not only one of the essentials of high success, but that
it is almost a fortune of itself, and that he who has this quality
in perfection, though a blockhead, is almost sure to succeed where,
without it, even men of good ability fail.

A good manner is the best letter of recommendation among strangers.

Civility, refinement and gentleness are passports to hearts and
homes, while awkwardness, coarseness and gruffness are met with
locked doors and closed hearts.

Emerson says: "Give a boy address and accomplishments, and you give
him the mastery of palaces and fortunes wherever he goes; he has
not the trouble of earning or owning them; they solicit him to enter
and possess."

In every class of life, in all professions and occupations, good manners
are necessary to success. The business man has no stock-in-trade that
pays him better than a good address. If the retail dealer wears his
hat on his head in the presence of ladies who come to buy of him,
if he does not see that the heavy door of his shop is opened and
closed for them, if he seats himself in their presence, if he smokes
a pipe or cigar, or has a chew of tobacco in his mouth, while talking
with them, or is guilty of any of the small incivilities of life,
they will not be apt to make his shop a rendezvous, no matter how
attractive the goods he displays.

A telling preacher in his opening remarks gains the good will of
his hearers, and makes them feel both that he has something to say,
and that he can say it, by his manner.

The successful medical man inspires in his patients belief in his
sympathy, and confidence in his skill, by his manner.

The lawyer, in pleading a case before a jury, and remembering that
the passions and prejudices of the jurymen govern them to as great
an extent as pure reason, must not be forgetful of his manner, if
he would bring them to his own way of thinking.

And how often does the motto, "Manners make the man," govern both
parties in matters of courtship, the lady giving preference to him
whose manners indicate a true nobility of the soul, and the gentleman
preferring her who displays in her manner a gentleness of spirit.

MANNER AN INDEX OF CHARACTER.

A rude person, though well meaning, is avoided by all.

Manners, in fact, are minor morals; and a rude person is often
assumed to be a bad person.

Its shape was
most curious, like the path of a snake in the dust. Like a snake, too,
it seemed deadly, and the light that played upon its sinuous length and
dripped from the point like water, glittered like the eyes of a
serpent.

"What an awful knife," said Hortense.

"Those spears and knives give me the shivers," said Mary. "I've told
your Grandfather I'd never touch them."

"Most of them are dead," said Hortense, "but the one with the curly
blade and the green handle looks as though it could come right down at
you. I'd like to have that one."

Mary jumped.

"Don't you touch it," she said severely. "You might hurt yourself
dreadfully."

Hortense said no more, but resolved to ask Grandfather about the knife
at the first opportunity. Sometime, when she had a chance, she would
come to the parlor and talk with the knife. It must have lovely,
shivery things to tell.

There was also a couch which fascinated her, a long, low couch with
short curved legs and brass clawed feet. Hortense surveyed it for a
long time.

"It looks like an alligator asleep," she said at last. "I wonder if it
ever wakes up."

"What does?" Mary asked.

"The couch," said Hortense. "See its short curved legs, just like an
alligator's? And it's long. Probably its tail is tucked away inside
somewhere. Alligators have long tails, you know. I saw an alligator
once that looked just like that."

"I declare," said Mary, "you are an awful child. I won't stay in this
room a bit longer. I feel creepy."

She gathered up her dust cloths and broom, and Hortense went
reluctantly with her.

"Do show me the attic, Mary," Hortense pleaded.

"Not to-day," said Mary firmly. "You'd be seeing things in the corners.
I never saw your like!"

So for the rest of the morning, Mary dusted other rooms in which all
the furniture seemed dead or asleep and, therefore, quite
uninteresting.

After luncheon, however, Hortense asked Grandfather to tell her about
the knife with the crinkly blade.

"That," said Grandfather, "is a Malay kris, such as the pirates in the
East Indies carry. An old sea captain gave it to me. It once belonged
to a Malay pirate. When he was captured, my friend secured it and gave
it to me in return for a service I did for him."

"It looks as though it could tell terrible stories," said Hortense.

"No doubt it would if it could talk," said Grandfather. "It is very old
and doubtless has been in a hundred fights and killed men."

"You wouldn't let me carry it?" Hortense asked.

"Gracious no," said Grandfather. "It is dangerous. What made you think
of such a thing?"

What Hortense thought was that it would be a very nice and handy weapon
to hunt the cat with at night, but she couldn't tell Grandfather that;
so she said nothing.

"It's a nice afternoon," said Grandfather, "and little girls should be
out-of-doors. Run out and see the barn and the orchard."

Hortense did as she was told, wandering about the yard, exploring the
loft of the barn, and the orchard. At last she came back to the house,
for this interested her more than anything else.

There were many bushes and shrubs planted close to the walls, forming
fine secret corners in which to hide and look unseen upon the world
without. Hortense hid a while in each of them, wishing she had some one
with whom to play hide and seek.

She found one bush which was particularly inviting, for it was beside
an open window of the basement. She looked in and was surprised to see
that the window opened not into the basement but into a wooden box or
chute that sloped steeply, and then dropped out of sight into the gloom
below.

Hortense peered in as far as she could and as she did so, much to her
surprise, a head appeared in the darkness where the wooden box dropped
out of sight.

It was the head of a dirty little boy. As she stared at it, she
recognized the little boy who had turned handsprings in the yard next
door as she and Uncle Jonah had driven by yesterday.

"Hello," said Hortense.

"Hello," said the boy. "Help me out. I slipped."

He endeavored to lift himself to the chute whose edge came to his chin,
but it was too slippery and he could not. Hortense stretched out her
arm to help him, but the distance was too great.

"However did you get there?" Hortense asked.

"I wanted to see where it went," said the boy, "but once I got in I
slipped and fell to the bottom."

"Where does it go?" Hortense asked.

"Only to the furnace," said the boy in disgust.

"Oh," said Hortense. "I thought it might go to a secret room or
something."

"Can't you get a rope?" the boy asked.

Hortense considered.

"I couldn't pull you out if I did. I'll have to get Uncle Jonah."

"He'll lick me," said the boy.

"Oh, I know," said Hortense. "We'll play you're a prisoner in a
dungeon, and every day I'll bring you things to eat."

But the boy didn't seem to like this idea.

"I want to get out," he said, and disappeared.

"I believe there's some sort of a door at the bottom," he said at last,
reappearing, "but it opens from the other side. Couldn't you get into
the cellar and open it?"

"Aunt Esmerelda might see me and ask what I was doing," she answered.
"Maybe I can get by when she isn't looking. You wait."

"I'll wait all right," said the boy. "Don't you be too long. It's dark
in here."

"The dark won't hurt you," said Hortense, but to this the boy only
snorted by way of reply.

Hortense peeped cautiously into the kitchen. Aunt Esmerelda was seated
in her chair, fast asleep.

"What luck," thought Hortense, and she tiptoed across the kitchen to
the cellar door. She opened it very carefully, shut it again without
noise, and crept down the stairs.

The basement was dark, but soon Hortense began to see her way and
walked to the furnace. At the back of it was the wooden chute that led
to the window above.

She knocked gently upon it.

"Are you in there?" she asked.

"Yes," said a muffled voice.

Hortense looked for the door of which the boy had spoken and at last
found a panel which slid in grooves. She pulled at this but succeeded
in raising it only a couple of inches.

"It's stuck," said Hortense.

"I can help," said the boy, slipping his fingers through the opening.

He and Hortense pulled and tugged and at last succeeded in raising the
panel about a foot. They couldn't budge it an inch further.

"I guess I can squeeze through," said the boy.

Scraping sounds came from the box, and the noise of heels on the wooden
sides. The boy's head appeared and then an arm. Hortense seized the arm
and pulled.

At last a very dusty, grimy boy wriggled through and, rising gasping to
his feet, dusted his clothes.

"What's your name?" Hortense asked.

"Andy. What's yours?"

Hortense told him. They looked at each other without further words.

"You've got to get through the kitchen without Aunt Esmerelda seeing
you," said Hortense, and led the way to the cellar stairs.

"You stay here until I see if she's still asleep," Hortense said as she
crept cautiously to the top.

She opened the door very gently and peered in. Aunt Esmerelda still sat
in her corner, asleep. Hortense motioned to Andy, who came as quietly
as he could, which wasn't very quiet for his heels clumped loudly on
the stairs.

"Hush!" Hortense whispered. "Now go as fast and as quietly as you can
across the kitchen. Hide behind the barn, and I'll follow you."

Andy ran across the room, but as he went out of the door he struck his
toe against the sill, making a great clatter.

Aunt Esmerelda awoke with a start.

"Lan's sakes, wha's dat?" she exclaimed.

"May I have some cookies, Aunt Esmerelda?" Hortense asked.

Aunt Esmerelda's eyes were rolling.

"I 'clare I seed somefin' goin' out dat a doh. Dis yere house 'll be de
def of me. Cookies? 'Cose you can have cookies, honey."

Hortense helped herself freely, remembering that Andy would want some.
With these in her hands she walked through the yard and around the
barn, where she found Andy.

"Cookies!" cheered Andy, and falling upon his share which Hortense gave
him, he ate them one after another as fast as he could, never saying a
word.

"Didn't you have any luncheon?" Hortense asked.

"Of course," said Andy, "but I squeezed so thin getting out of that box
that I'm hungry again."

"I suppose," said Hortense, "that when I want a second helping of
dessert and haven't room for it, all I need do is to squeeze in and out
of the box and then I can start all over again."

It seemed a delightful plan.

"We might do it now and get some more cookies," said Andy, hopefully.

"Aunt Esmerelda would catch us and tell Uncle Jonah," said Hortense.

She meditated on the delightful possibilities of the box.

"We could play hide and seek, sometime when nobody's about," she said.
"It's a grand place to hide."

"But we both know of it and there's nobody else to play with," said
Andy.

This was very true unless Highboy and Lowboy and the Firedogs and Owl
should be taken into the game. Hortense looked at Andy wondering
whether to tell him of these friends of hers and of the Cat.

"If we played at night," said Hortense, "we could have lots of people.
Highboy, and Lowboy, and Owl, and the Firedogs come out at night."

Andy stared at her with round eyes.

"They're the furniture, you know," said Hortense. "You can see some
things are alive and waiting to come out of themselves. I'm sure
Alligator Sofa and Malay Kris would play, too, if we asked them."

Andy's eyes were as big as saucers.

"Honest?" he asked doubtfully.

"They came out last night and we chased the cat, Jeremiah, into the
attic where he disappeared," said Hortense. "We must find out where he
went."

"Aw, you're fooling," said Andy, but he spoke weakly.

"Cross my heart 'n hope to die," said Hortense. "You come over to-night
after everybody's asleep, and I'll show you."

"I suppose I could get out of my window all right," said Andy
doubtfully, "but how could I get into your house?"

"By the cellar window and the wooden chute as you did to-day!" cried
Hortense. "Then I'd unlock the cellar door, and you could come up."

Andy seemed not to like the prospect.

"It will be dark," he said.

"Oh, if you're afraid of the dark, of course," Hortense sniffed.

"Who said I was afraid?" challenged Andy.

"Well, come if you aren't afraid," said Hortense. "But you mustn't make
any noise, of course, or they'll catch us."

Andy looked long at her and swallowed hard.

"I'll come," he said bravely.


CHAPTER V

"_Jeremiah's disappeared again._"


After dinner that night, Grandfather took Hortense on his knee and told
her an exciting story, of pirates and Malay Kris.

"Is it true?" Hortense asked.

"Pretty nearly," said Grandfather. "It might be true."

"If you think things are true, then they are true, aren't they?"
Hortense demanded.

"Perhaps," said Grandfather, wrinkling his forehead. "Philosophers
disagree on that point. Now run off to bed."

Hortense kissed her Grandfather and Grandmother good night and went to
her room.

"I hope you got a good nap to-day," she said to Highboy when she had
closed the door, "because we are going to play hide and seek to-night,
and Andy, who lives next door, is coming over."

"I slept all day," said Highboy, "and I'm fit as a fiddle."

"Why do you say fit as a fiddle?" asked Hortense. "Do fiddles have
fits? Cats have, of course!"

"And dresses," added Highboy, "and things fit into boxes. Your
grandmother says when she puts things into me, 'This will fit nicely,'
so I suppose a fiddle fits or has fits the same way."

"It doesn't seem clear to me," said Hortense.

"How many things are clear?" Highboy demanded.

"Lots of things aren't," Hortense admitted. "Of course, a clear day is
easy."

"And you clear the table," said Highboy.

"And clear the decks for action," said Hortense, "but that's pirates. I
must ask Malay Kris about that. He's seen it happen lots of times.
We'll get him to play to-night."

"Who is Malay Kris?" asked Highboy.

"He's the long, snaky knife that hangs in the parlor," said Hortense.
"Then there's Alligator Sofa, too. We'll get him to play, if he'll wake
up. He's so slow I suspect he'll always be _It_."

Highboy shivered until he creaked.

"They sound fierce and dangerous to me," he said, "worse than Coal and
Ember."

"Perhaps we can set him on Jeremiah and the other one," said Hortense.
"I'm longing to see the bright, round one with prickly sides. I've a
guess as to who it is."

Highboy shivered again.

"Don't mention them in my hearing--please!" he begged. "You never can
tell when Jeremiah is snooping about, and he's a telltale."

"Well, we needn't be afraid of Jeremiah," Hortense said. "Malay Kris
will make the other one run, too, I expect."

She looked out of the window.

"There's no light on the lawn from the library," said she. "Everybody
must be in bed. Let's go down."

"You hold my hand tight," said Highboy.

Hortense did so, and they stole down the stairs together.

Coal and Ember growled a bit when they entered Grandmother's room but
stopped when they saw who it was.

"What do we do to-night?" Owl asked. "I feel wakeful."

"Andy's coming over," said Hortense, "and then we're going to ask Malay
Kris and Alligator Sofa to play with us."

"Andy sounds like a boy," said Owl. "I hate boys. One robbed my nest of
eggs once, and I swore I'd pull his hair if I ever met him again."

"That was another boy, I'm sure," Hortense replied.

"All boys are bad," Owl grumbled. "Who are Malay Kris and Alligator
Sofa?"

Sam Pepys, a very worthy, industrious and curious person.... He lived
at Clapham with his partner, Mr.

Hewer, formerly his clerk, in a very noble house and sweete place, where
he enjoyed the fruite of his labours in greate prosperity.

He was universally belov'd, hospitable, generous, learned in many
things, skill'd in music, a very greate cherisher of learned men
of whom he had the conversation.

His library and collection of other curiosities were of the most
considerable, the models of ships especially....

Mr. Pepys had been for neere 40 years so much my particular friend,
that Mr.

Jackson sent me compleat mourning, desiring me to be one to hold
up the pall at his magnificent obsequies, but my indisposition
hindered me from doing him this last office.

All the teachings of the histories of our student days force us to
look on Charles II. as one of the weakest of English kings; but
when we come to enjoy Pepys and to revere Evelyn, we begin to see
that there is much to be said for him as a monarch, and that he did
more for England under difficult circumstances than conventional
history has given him credit for.

It took many years for me to find any diary or memoir that appealed
to me as much as that of Pepys.

His great charm is that he does for you what formal history never does;
he takes you into the heart of his time, and introduces you into
the centre of his mind and heart.

In literature, in poetry and prose, the reader hopes that the roofs of
houses or the tops of heads might be taken off, so that we could
see with an understanding eye what goes on.

The interest of the human race, though it may be disguised rhetorically,
is the interest that everybody finds in gossip. Malicious gossip is
one thing; but that gossip that makes us know our fellow men and
women somewhat as we know ourselves--but perhaps more clearly--can
never be rooted out of normal human nature.

I read and re-read favourite parts of Pepys's "Diary" many times,
and I sat myself down in many cozy corners, on hills, on valleys,
by land, and by sea, to dip into the "Memoirs of Saint-Simon"; and
then there was always Madame de Sévigné.

Much was hoped from the long-promised "Memoirs of Talleyrand." They
came; they were disappointing.

Suddenly arrived a very complete and egoistical book that compares
in a way with the perennial favourites of mine I have been writing
about.

And this is "The Education of Henry Adams," and almost contemporaneously
the "Letters of William James."

It is easy to understand the delight with which intelligent people welcomed
"The Education of Henry Adams."

Unconsciously to most of us, it showed elaborately what we talked
about in our graduation essays and what we believed in a vague
way--that education consists in putting value on the circumstances
of life, and regarding each circumstance as a step either forward
or backward in one's educational progress.

This is the lesson which young Americans are taught by Harold Bell
Wright and Gene Stratton-Porter; and which Samuel Smiles beat into
the heads of the English.

Henry Adams's lesson, however, is not taught in the same way at all.

There is no preaching; it is a series of pictures, painted by a
gentleman, with a sure hand, who looks on the phenomena of life as
no other American has ever looked on them, or, at least, as no other
American has ever expressed them.

The judicious and the sensitive and the nicely discerning may shrink
with horror from me when I say that I put at once "The Education
of Henry Adams," for my delectation, beside the "Apologia pro Vita
Sua" of Cardinal Newman!

There is the same delicate egoism in both; there is the same
reasonable and well-bred reticence.

There is one great difference, however; while Cardinal Newman
ardently longs for truth and is determined to find it, Henry Adams
seems not quite sure whether truth is worth searching for or not.

And yet Henry Adams is more human, more interesting than Cardinal
Newman, for, while Newman is almost purely intellectual and so much
above the reach of most of us, Adams is merely intelligent--but
intelligent enough to discern the richness of life, and mystical
enough to long for a religious key to its meaning.

Newman not only longs, but reasons and acts. It was not the definition
of the unity of God that troubled Adams.

It was the question of His personality. The existence of pain and
wretchedness in the world was a bar to his understanding that a
personal Christ should be equal in divinity with God, in fact, God
Himself.

Newman, who was more spiritual, saw that pain was no barrier to
faith in a personal God.

I am speaking now only from my own point of view; others who like to
read both Newman and Adams may look on this view as entirely
negligible.

What other American than Adams would have so loved without understanding
the spirit of Saint Francis d'Assisi:
Vast swarms of Americans knew the Civil War only by school history,
as they knew the story of Cromwell or Cicero, and were as familiar
with political assassination as though they had lived under Nero.

The climax of empire could be seen approaching, year after year,
as though Sulla were a President or McKinley a Consul.

Nothing annoyed America more than to be told this simple and
obvious--in no way unpleasant--truth; therefore one sat silent as
ever on the Capitol; but, by way of completing the lesson, the
Lodges added a pilgrimage to Assisi and an interview with St.

Francis, whose solution of historical riddles seemed the most
satisfactory--or sufficient--ever offered; worth fully forty years'
more study, and better worth it than Gibbon himself, or even St.

    Augustine, St. Ambrose,
    or St. Jerome. The
    most
    bewildering
    effect of all these fresh crosslights on the old Assistant Professor
of 1874 was due to the astonishing contrast between what he had
taught them and what he found himself confusedly trying to learn
five-and-twenty years afterwards--between the twelfth century of
his thirtieth and that of his sixtieth years.

At Harvard College, weary of spirit in the wastes of Anglo-Saxon
law, he had occasionally given way to outbursts of derision at
shedding his life-blood for the sublime truths of Sac and Soc:--

Hic Jacet Homunculus Scriptor Doctor Barbaricus Henricus Adams Adae
Filius et Evae Primo Explicuit Socnam
The Latin was as twelfth century as the law, and he meant as satire
the claim that he had been first to explain the legal meaning of
Sac and Soc, although any German professor would have scorned it
as a shameless and presumptuous bid for immortality; but the whole
point of view had vanished in 1900.

Not he, but Sir Henry Maine and Rudolph Sohm, were the parents or
creators of Sac and Soc.

Convinced that the clue of religion led to nothing, and that politics
led to chaos, one had turned to the law, as one's scholars turned
to the Law School, because one could see no other path to a
profession.

The law had proved as futile as politics or religion, or any other
single thread spun by the human spider; it offered no more continuity
than architecture or coinage, and no more force of its own.

St.

Francis expressed supreme contempt for them all, and solved the
whole problem by rejecting it altogether.

Adams returned to Paris with a broken and contrite spirit, prepared
to admit that his life had no meaning, and conscious that in any
case it no longer mattered.

After all, the speculations of Henry Adams, his thrusts at philosophy,
seem as futile as those of that very great American John Burroughs.

It is the facts of life as seen through his personality, the changes in
our political history as analyzed so skilfully by him after the
manner of no other man that make his book supremely interesting.

The real man is not hidden in "The Education of Henry Adams."

We can no longer talk of the degeneracy of American literary taste when
we know that this very American, characteristic, and illuminating
book was a "best seller" in our country for several months.

Some who like to bewail the degeneracy of our art and literature and
of our drama, declare that its popularity is simply due to a fashion.
Biographies are the fashion, and therefore it is the transitory
habit of the illiterate book buyer to purchase, if he does not read,
biographies.

This view may be dismissed with a scornful wave of the hand.

When I took up "The Education of Henry Adams," I was informed that it was
"pathetic."

Personally, it has never struck me that Henry Adams, as far as I know
him, is at all pathetic. He did not assume an air of pathos when he read
my review in _Scribner's Monthly_--before it became the _Century_--of
the novel "Democracy."

Mr.

Richard Watson Gilder, the editor, was away at the time, and I
recall his whimsical horror when on his return he read the things
I had said about a novel, which I, in the heat of youth, held to
be entirely un-American.

Mr. Henry Adams's book, in my opinion, has no element of pathos.

Adams lived a rare and interesting life.

He loved beauty, and was so prepared by tradition and education
that he knew how to appreciate beauty wherever he found it, and to
give reasons for its being beautiful.

Against the rough material obstacles in life, which are supposed to
be good for a man, but are not at all good, since they absorb a
great deal of energy that is subtracted from his later life, he was
not obliged to struggle.

Like Theodore Roosevelt, the greatest of all modern Americans, who was
a man of letters in love with life, Adams was not compelled to
look up to social strata above him, and, whatever the enraged
democrats may say, this in itself is a great advantage.

One can see from his "Education" that his material difficulties were
so slight that he could take them cheerfully, even in our world
where poverty is both a blunder and a crime.

This in itself tends toward happiness.

Henry Adams, it is true, suffered terribly in his heart. His description
of the death of his sister is heart-rending; he does not dwell on
the worst of his griefs.

No man had a more agreeable circle of friends, no man more pleasant
surrounding.

He was free in a way that few other men are free, and to my mind it is
this sense of freedom, of which he does not always take advantage,
that is one of the most appealing qualities of his book.

It is a great relief to meet a man and to be intimate with him, as
we are with Henry Adams, who has the power of using wings, whether
he uses them or not.

There are many reasons for the success of his book.

The chapters on "Diplomacy," on "Friends and Foes," on "Political
Morality," and on "The Battle of the Rams" are new contributions
to our history.

More than that, they elucidate conditions of mind which are generally
wrapped up, for motives of policy, in misty and often hypocritical
verbiage.

Some of the reviewers found "The Education" egotistical. This is too
strong a term. These memoirs would have no value if they were not
egotistical; and if the term "egotistical" implies conceit or
self-complacency or the desire to show one's better side to the public,
"The Education" does not deserve it.

A man cannot write about himself without writing about himself.

This seems very much like a platitude.
And Henry Adams writes about himself with no affectation of modesty.

If anything, he underrates himself, as in conversation he sometimes
took a tone which made him appear to those who knew him slightly
as below the average of the real Henry Adams.

Here, for instance, is a good passage:

Swinburne tested him [Henry Adams] then and there by one of his
favourite tests--Victor Hugo; for to him the test of Victor Hugo
was the surest and quickest of standards.

French poetry is at best a severe exercise for foreigners; it
requires extraordinary knowledge of the language and rare refinement
of ear to appreciate even the recitation of French verse; but unless
a poet has both, he lacks something of poetry.

Adams had neither.

To the end of his life he never listened to a French recitation
with pleasure, or felt a sense of majesty in French verse; but he
did not care to proclaim his weakness, and he tried to evade
Swinburne's vehement insistence by parading an affection for Alfred
de Musset.

Swinburne would have none of it; De Musset was unequal; he did not sustain
himself on the wing.

Adams would have given a world or two, if he owned one, to sustain himself
on the wing like De Musset, or even like Hugo; but his education
as well as his ear was at fault, and he succumbed.

Swinburne tried him again on Walter Savage Landor. In truth the test was
the same, for Swinburne admired in Landor's English the qualities
that he felt in Hugo's French; and Adams's failure was equally
gross, for, when forced to despair, he had to admit that both Hugo
and Landor bored him.

Nothing more was needed. One who could feel neither Hugo nor Landor was
lost.

The sentence was just and Adams never appealed from it. He knew his
inferiority in taste as he might know it in smell.

Keenly mortified by the dullness of his senses and instincts, he
knew he was no companion for Swinburne; probably he could be only
an annoyance; no number of centuries could ever educate him to
Swinburne's level, even in technical appreciation; yet he often
wondered whether there was nothing he had to offer that was worth
the poet's acceptance.

Certainly such mild homage as the American insect would have been
only too happy to bring, had he known how, was hardly worth the
acceptance of any one.

Only in France is the attitude of prayer possible; in England it became
absurd. Even Monckton Milnes, who felt the splendours of Hugo and Landor,
was almost as helpless as an American private secretary in personal
contact with them.

Ten years afterwards Adams met him at the Geneva Conference, fresh from
Paris, bubbling with delight at a call he had made on Hugo; "I was shown
into a large room," he said, "with women and men seated in chairs
against the walls, and Hugo at one end throned.

No one spoke.

At last Hugo raised his voice solemnly, and uttered the words: "Quant
a moi, je crois en Dieu!" Silence followed.

Then a woman responded as if in deep meditation: "Chose sublime! un Dieu
qui croit en Dieu!"

The _Chose sublime_ is an Adamesque touch!

It gives the last delicate tint to the impression. Page after page
gleams with such impressions and such touches.

He looks deep, and he sees clearly. But he lacks faith! He is the
discoverer of the twelfth century; and, in a lesser sense, the
discoverer of the real meaning of the nineteenth.

He perceived the real architecture of both the Cathedral of Chartres and
of "The Song of Roland."

How useless all the tomes of the learned Teutons seem in comparison
with his volume on Chartres, and their conclusions are so laboured
and ineffective in comparison with the lightning-like glance with
which he pierces the real meaning of the twelfth century.

He has his limitations, and he is not unaware of them.

But when one reflects on the hideous self-complacency, the eighteenth-century
ignorance, the half-educated vulgarity of most of the writers in
German and English who pretend to interpret the Middle Ages, one
cannot help giving grateful thanks for having found Henry Adams.

To be sure, he does not respect Harvard, and one of his reasons
seems to be that the Harvard man, though capable of valuing the
military architecture of the walls of Constantinople, cannot
sympathize with the beauties of Chartres or Sancta Sophia.

Yale, he assumes, is more receptive. However, Henry Adams, if he were
alive to-day, would have discovered that both Yale and Harvard,
both seekers after culture and the cultivated, the hitherto prejudiced
and self-opinionated, have profited greatly by the education he has
given them.

It seems that Henry Adams fancied that he had failed as an educator.

He did not realize that he would give his countrymen an education
which they greatly lacked, and which many of them are sincerely
grateful for.

The man that cannot read his chapter on "Eccentricity" over and
over again is incapable of appreciating some of Pepys's best passages!

Books to be read and re-read ought to occupy only a small space on
any shelf, and not many of them, in my opinion, are among the One
Hundred Best Books listed by the late Sir John Lubbock.

Each of us will make his own shelf of books. The book for me is the
book that delights, attracts, soothes, or uplifts me. Let those critics
go hang whose criticisms are not literature!

Sainte-Beuve makes literature when he exercises his critical vocation;
Brunetière has too heavy a hand; Francisque Sarcey has some touches
of inspiration that give delight.

There are no really good French critics to-day, probably because they
have so little material to work on. Our own Mencken, with all
his vagaries, is worth while, and Brander Matthews knows his line
and the value of background and perspective; William Lyon Phelps
has a light hand; but there are many leaves in our forests of
critical writing and not much wood.

Literary criticism is becoming a lost art with our English brethren,
who once claimed Saintsbury and George Lewes.

The admitted existence of cliques and claques in London makes us
distrustful. You were worked into great enthusiasm for Stephen Phillips's
"Herod" until you found that half a score of notices of this tragedy
were written by the same hand!

It seems almost impossible that "The Letters of William James"
should appear shortly after "The Education of Henry Adams," and,
though the Jameses were New Yorkers, they are certainly redolent
of New England.

We had begun to forget our debt to the writers of New England. Mrs.
Freeman and Mr. Lincoln hold up their heads as writers of modern
folk stories; but the _Atlantic Monthly_ has become eclectic.

It has lost the flavour of New England. That Boston which in the
_Atlantic_ had always been a state of mind has become different
from the real old Boston.

In truth, Indiana had begun to blot out the whole of New England, and
Miss Agnes Repplier had begun to stain our map of culture with the
modulated tints of Philadelphia.

For myself, I had returned to the novels of Harriet Beecher
Stowe--leaving out "Uncle Tom's Cabin," which I always found
detestable--to "Elsie Venner" and to "The Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table," in the hope that the flavour of New England, which I found
to my horror was growing faint in me, might be retained.

There is always "The House of the Seven Gables!"

But, while I was lingering over some almost forgotten pages of Mrs.

Stowe with great pleasure, something she said reminded me of Walter
Savage Landor, and I turned to the only work of Landor which had
ever attracted me, "The Imaginary Conversations."

There was an interlude of enjoyment and exasperation.

He shows himself so malicious, so bigoted, so narrow, and so incapable
of comprehending some of the historical persons he presents to us.

But there are compensations, all the same.

Whatever one may think of the animus of Landor, one cannot get on without
an occasional dip into "The Imaginary Conversations."

Suddenly Landor reminded me of Marion Crawford's "With the Immortals,"
and I rediscovered Marion Crawford's Heinrich Heine! To have discovered
Heine in Zangwill's "In a Mattress Grave" was worth a long search
through many magazines.

Like Stevenson's "Lodging for the Night," Zangwill's few pages can never
be obliterated from the heart of a loving reader--by a loving
reader I mean a reader who loves men a little more than books.

You will remember that Crawford's Immortals appear at Sorrento where
Lady Brenda and Augustus and Gwendolyn Chard are enjoying the fine
flower of life.

If Sir Conan Doyle and Sir Oliver Lodge could only bring back to
life, or induce to come back to life, King Francis I. and Julius
Cæsar and Heinrich Heine and Doctor Johnson,[1] together with that
group of semi-happy souls who live on the "enamelled green" of
Dante, spiritism might have more to say for itself!

"'I call a cat a cat,' as Boileau put it," remarked Heine. "I would like
to know how many men in a hundred are disappointed in the women
they marry."

"Just as many as have too much imagination," said Augustus.

"No," said Johnson, shaking his head violently and speaking suddenly
in an excited tone.

"No.

Those who are disappointed are such as are possessed of imagination
without judgment; but a man whose imagination does not outrun his
judgment is seldom deceived in the realisation of his hopes.

I suspect that the same
thing is true in the art of poetry, of which Herr Heine is at once
a master and a judge.

For the qualities that constitute genius are invention, imagination
and judgment; invention, by which new trains of events are formed, and
new scenes of imagery displayed; imagination, which strongly
impresses on the writer's mind, and enables him to convey to the
reader the various form of nature, incidents of life and energies
of passion; and judgment, which selects from life or nature what
the present purpose requires, and by separating the essence of
things from its concomitants, often makes the representation more
powerful than the reality.

A man who possesses invention and imagination can invent and imagine
a thousand beauties, gifts of mind and virtues of character; but
unless he have judgment which enables him to discern the bounds of
possibility and to detect the real nature of the woman he has chosen
as the representative of his self-formed ideal, he runs great risk
of being deceived.

As a general rule, however, it has pleased Providence to endow man
with much more judgment than imagination; and to this cause we may
attribute the small number of poets who have flourished in the
world, and the great number of happy marriages among civilised
mankind."

"It appears that I must have possessed imagination after all," said
Francis.

"If you will allow me to say it," said Cæsar in his most suave
tones, and turning his heavy black eyes upon the king's face, "you
had too much.

Had you possessed less imagination and more judgment, you might
many times have destroyed the Emperor Charles.

To challenge him to fight a duel was a gratuitous and very imaginative
piece of civility; to let him escape as you did more than once
when you could easily have forced an engagement on terms advantageous
to yourself, was unpardonable."

"I know it," said Francis, bitterly. "I was not Cæsar."
"No, sir," said Johnson in loud, harsh tones, "nor were you happy
in your marriages--"

"I adore learned men," whispered Francis to Lady Brenda.
"H'm, he won't be so easy as I
thought. However, I'll have a try."

Hortense laid a hand on his shoulder.

"Not now," she said. "Let's wait."

Grater began to sing in a harsh voice. As Hortense listened to the
words, she hastily put her hand to her throat to make sure that the
little monkey charm was safe, for it was certain the words referred to
it.

    _I'll have the charm
    That saves from harm;
    The charm I'll have
    And make her slave;
    It's on her neck,
    And I expect
    She'll die of fear
    When I come near.
    On her I'll grate
    As sure as fate._

This was certainly a disagreeable prospect, for Grater must prove very
scratchy indeed.

"I surely must keep away from him," Hortense reflected.

She forgot her fear of Grater in a moment, however, for there was a
noise as of claws on the attic floor, and the movement of a heavy body.

"It's Alligator!" she said aloud.

"Yes, it's me," Alligator answered. "Don't anybody try to stop me. I
know that Cat's upon the roof, and I mean to have him. I'll swallow him
whole."

"The Cat is dancing with Grater," said Hortense, "and Grater is a
terrible person. You daren't swallow him, for he's all hard and covered
with sharp points."

"I am myself," Alligator said. "I'll look him over, but it's the Cat I
want. Warm and soft, he'll be."

Alligator started up the ladder, and Hortense and the others pressed
aside to let him pass. Softly he slid out of the window upon the roof
and was half way down it before the Cat saw him.

Jeremiah, with a howl, leaped to the top of the chimney, his back
arched, his tail as large as a fox's brush.

Grater, who was a nimble fellow for all that he looked so clumsy, after
one glance at Alligator ran quickly around to the other side of the
roof, and Alligator, with the slow, relentless movement of a traction
engine, continued after Jeremiah. Jeremiah remembered his former
unhappy experience, apparently, for with one despairing meow he
disappeared down the chimney. They could hear him falling slowly, his
claws scratching the bricks. As he fell, his cries grew fainter and
fainter. As for Alligator, he stood with his short forelegs resting on
the chimney top, the picture of disappointment.

Hortense and the others were so absorbed in this interesting scene that
they had quite forgotten Grater. His sudden appearance at the window so
surprised them that all four slid down the ladder in a panic.

"Quick, the trapdoor!" Hortense cried.

"Let me fight him!" Malay Kris begged.

"No, no, not here!" Hortense said and pushed him before her.

Down the ladder they went as fast as they could, which wasn't very
fast, for the iron rungs were slippery and Hortense had to feel for
each one with her feet. Highboy was before her and once she stepped on
his fingers.

"Ouch!" Highboy cried, and stopped to put his fingers in his mouth.

He even found time to do a little work.

But now!

That poor brain must know that McGinty of Fulham fetched £1,000 when
put up for auction, that the front line of Blackburn Rovers
represents an expense of £11,321 13s. 4d., and that Chelsea have
played before 71,935 spectators.

He must know the champions of the First, Second, Southern, Midland, and
Scottish Leagues, and the teams that gained promotion.

Then there is cricket--all worked out to "those damned dots," as Lord
RANDOLPH said in an inspired moment.

Think of the strain of remembering that Middlesex stands at 78.66 and
Surrey at 72.94.

And the sporting papers are publishing lists of catches made; and lists
of catches missed are sure to follow.

Think of it--you may have to name the Champion Butterfingers in 1915!

Come to tennis.

You must know the names of the Australian Terror, the New Zealand
Cyclone, the American Whirlwind.

You must at a glance be able to pronounce on the nationality of
Mavrogordato or Froitzheim.

You have the strain of proving that the victory of a New Zealander
over a German proves the vitality of the dear old country.

Or boxing.

How can an ordinary mind retain the names of all the White Hopes
or Black Despairs.

At any moment some Terrible Magyar may wrest the bantam championship from
us. You must learn to distinguish between WELLS, the reconstructor
of the universe, and Knock-out WELLS.

You must be acquainted with the doings and prospects of Dreadnought
Brown and Mulekick Jones.

You must know the F. E. Smithian repartees of JACK JOHNSON.

Let us talk of golf. No, on second thoughts, let us notably refrain
from talking about golf. Only if you don't know who defeated TRAVERS
(_plus_ lumbago) and who eclipsed America's Bright Boy, you must hide
your head in shame.

We come to rowing.

Once one could stay, "Ah, Leander," and with an easy shrug of the
shoulders pass from the subject.

But when international issues are involved, and the win of a Canadian
or American or German crew may cause _The Daily Mail_ to declare
(for the hundredth time) that England is played out, a man simply
has to keep abreast of the results.

There are a score of other things. Name for me, if you can, the
Great American Four, the hydro-aeroplane champion, the M.P. champion
pigeon-flyer, and the motor-bike hill-climbing champion.

And the Olympic games are coming! Who are England's hopes in the
discus-throwing and the fancy diving? What Britisher must we rely on
in the javelin hop-skip-and-jump?

Your brain reels at the prospect.

We must decide to ignore all future championships.

We must decline to be aggravated if a Japanese Badminton champion
appears.

We must cease to be interested if Britain's Hope beats the Horrible
Peruvian at Tiddly-winks.

There are three admirable reasons for this.

The first is that we must play some games ourselves.

The second, that, unless a check be put to championships, the Parliamentary
news will be crowded out of the papers and we shall find ourselves
in an unnatural state of peace and goodwill.

The third, which one puts forward with diffidence, is that somebody,
somewhere, somehow, sometime must do a little work.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Wife (with some sadness)._ "AH, WELL, HENRY, I
SUPPOSE IT'S A BIT TOO LATE FOR YOU TO THINK OF THAT NOW

."]

* * * * *

TO THE MEMORY OF JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN.

BORN 1836. DIED JULY 2ND, 1914.

Ere warmth of Spring had stirred the wintry lands-- Spring that for him
had no renewing breath-- He went apart to wait with folded hands The
lingering feet of Death.

Long had he laid his burnished armour by, But still we flew his banner
for a sign, Still felt his spirit like a rallying-cry Hearten the
fighting line.

But he--ah, none could know the heavy strain, Patiently to accept the
watcher's part While yet no weakness sapped the virile brain Nor dulled
the eager heart.

He should have died with all his harness on, As those the Valkyr
bore from out the fight, In ringing mail that still unrusted shone,
Up to Valhalla's height.

                     Yet solace flowed from that surcease of strife:
Love found occasion in his need of care, And time was ours to prove
how dear the life An Empire ill could spare.

    And generous foes confessed the magic spell Of greatness gone,
    that left the common store Poor by his loss who loved his party
    well, But loved his country more.
    
    And ancient rivalries seemed very small Beside that courage
    constant to the end; And even Death, last enemy of all, Came to
him like a friend.

    O. S.
    
    * * * * *
    [Illustration: JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN. JULY 2ND, 1914.]
    * * * * *
    ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.
    
    (EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.)
    _House of Commons, Monday, July 6.

    _--All heads were bared when the PRIME MINISTER rose to move adjournment
    of HOUSE in sign of sorrow at the passing way of a great Parliament
    man. To vast majority of present House JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN is a
    tradition. His personal presence, its commanding force, is varied
    and invariable attraction are unknown.

    Since his final re-election by faithful Birmingham, where, like the
    Shunamite woman, he dwelt among his own people loving and loved,
    he only once entered the House.

    It was a tragic scene, perhaps happily witnessed by few. Appointed
    business of sitting concluded and Members departed, a figure that
    once commanded attention of a listening Senate slowly entered from
    behind the SPEAKER'S chair. It was the senior Member for Birmingham
    come to take the oath. The action was indicative of his thoroughness
    and loyalty.

    No longer were oaths, rolls of Parliament and seats on either
    Front Bench matters of concern to him. His manifold task was
    done. His brilliant course was run.

    But, until he took the oath and signed the roll, he was not _de
    jure_ a Member of the House of Commons, and his vote might not be
    available by the Whips for a pair on a critical division.
    
    Accordingly here he was, moving haltingly with the aid of a stick,
    supported by the strong arm of the son whose maiden speech his old
chief GLADSTONE years ago welcomed as "dear and refreshing to a
father's heart."

    He took the oath and signed the roll--an historic page in a unique
    volume. With dimmed eyes he glanced round the familiar scene of hard
    fights and great triumphs, and went forth never to return.
    
    To-day he lived again in speeches delivered by the PRIME
    MINISTER, by the LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION, and by the Cabinet
    colleague and leader to whom he was loyal to the last. The practice
    of delivering set eulogies to the memory of the departed great is
the most difficult that falls to the lot of a Leader on either side
of House of Commons.

    In some hands it has uncontrollable tendency to the artificiality
    and insipidity of funeral baked meats. DISRAELI was a failure
    on such occasions; GLADSTONE at his best. PRINCE ARTHUR, usually
    supreme, did not to-day reach his accustomed lofty level.

    In fineness of tone and exquisite felicity of phrasing, ASQUITH
    excelled himself. The first time the House of Commons caught a
    glimpse of profound depths of a nature habitually masked by
    impassive manner and curt speech was when he talked to it in broken
    voice about CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN, just dead. Speaking this afternoon
    about one with whom, as he said, he "had exchanged many blows,"
he was even more impressive, not less by reason of the eloquence
of his speech than by its simplicity and sincerity.

    _Business done._--In the House of Lords _le brave_ WILLOUGHBY DE BROKE
    was, if the phrase be Parliamentary, broken in the Division
    Lobby.
    Insisting on fighting the Home Rule Amending Bill to the last, he
    found himself supported by ten peers, a Liberal Ministry having
    for an important measure the majority, unparalleled in modern
    times, of 263.
    
    When figures were announced Lord CREWE, reminiscent of the farmer
    smacking his lips over a liqueur glass of old brandy, remarked to
    Viscount MORLEY, "I should like some more of that in a moog."

    _Tuesday._--Interesting episode preceded main business of sitting.

    Sort of rehearsal of meeting of Parliament on College Green. Opened
    by SHEEHAN rising from Bench partially filled by O'Brienites to
    move issue of new writ for North Galway.

    Had it been an English borough nothing particular would have happened.

    Writ would have been ordered as matter of course, and there an end
    on't.
    

    Things different on College Green.

    When SHEEHAN sat down, up gat Captain DONELAN from Redmondite
    camp, which when moved to Dublin will, by reason of numerical
majority, be analogous to Ministerialists at Westminister.

    DONELAN remarked that in his capacity as Nationalist Whip he intended
    to move issue of writ next Monday. This fully explained why
    O'BRIEN'S young man moved it to-day. Otherwise cause of quarrel
    obscure. What they fought each other for dense mind of Saxon could
not make out.

    Ambiguity partly due to DONELAN. Lacking the volubility common to his
    countrymen he had prepared heads of his speech jotted down on piece
of notepaper.

    This so intricately folded that sequence of remarks occasionally
    suffered. Situation further complicated by accidental turning over
of notes upside down.

    House grateful when presently TIM HEALY interposed. He being
    past-master of lucid statement, we should now know all about
circumstances which apparently, to the temporary shouldering aside
of Ulster, rocked Ireland to its centre.

    [Illustration: TIM BUONAPARTE.]
    Unfortunately TIM was embarrassed by attempt to assume a novel
    oratorical attitude. Usually he addresses House with studied
    carelessness of hands lightly clasped behind his back. Presumably
    in consideration of supreme national importance of the question
    whether SHEEHAN should move issue of writ to-day or DONELAN on
Monday, he essayed a new attitude.

    It recalled NAPOLEON at Fontainebleau folding his arms majestically
    as he bade farewell to remnant of the Old Guard.
    
    Attempt, several times repeated, proved a failure. Somehow or other
    TIM'S arms would not adjust themselves to novel circumstances,
    and fell back into the old _laissez-faire_ position. Speech
    repeatedly interrupted on points of order by compatriots on back
    benches. What was clear was that some one had filed a petition in
bankruptcy.

    Identity of delinquent not so clear.
    
    [Illustration: "Prospective first Speaker of a modern Irish
Parliament."

    (Mr. SWIFT MACNEILL.)]
    However, as a foretaste of debate in Home Rule Parliament, proceedings
    interesting and instructive.

    Disposed of slanderous suggestions of disorder. Never, or hardly
    ever, was a more decorous debate. To it SWIFT MACNEILL, prospective
    first Speaker of a modern Irish Parliament, lent the dignity and
authority of his patronage.

    Pretty to see him, as debate went forward, glancing aside at his
    wigged-and-gowned brother in the Chair, as who should say, "What
do you think of this, Sir?"

    _Business done._--With assistance of Ministerial forces, O'Brienite
    motion for issue of writ for Galway defeated by Redmondite amendment
    to adjourn debate.

    WILLIAM O'BRIEN took swift revenge.

    House dividing on PREMIER'S motion allotting time for remaining
    stages of Budget Bill, he led his little flock into Opposition
    Lobby, assisting to reduce Ministerial majority to figure of 23.

    In this labour of love he found himself assisted by abstention
    of two groups of Ministerialists, one objecting to procedure on
Finance Bill, the other thirsting for blood of the Ulster
gun-runners.

    If PREMIER still hesitates about Autumn Session this incident should
    help him to make up his mind. The Government will be safer with
    its Members on the moors or the golf links than daily running
    the gauntlet at Westminster.

    _House of Lords, Thursday._--When noble lords take their legislative
    business seriously in hand they show the Commons a better way. Their
    dealing with the Amending Bill has been a model of businesslike
    procedure. Speeches uniformly brief because kept strictly to
    the point. Amendments carefully considered in council and moved
    from Front Opposition Bench were carried by large majorities.

    _Business done.

    _--Home Rule Amending Bill turned inside out in two sittings. Own
    father wouldn't know it. SARK sums up situation by paraphrase of
historic saying.

    "They have," he remarks, "made a new Bill and call it Peace

    ."

    * * * * *
    [Illustration: AN EX-VICEREGAL BAG. (Earl CURZON.)]
    * * * * *
    ELECTION INTELLIGENCE.
    

    GREAT AMERICAN INVASION.
    
    The prospects of the forthcoming campaign in the East Worcestershire
    Division have been greatly brightened by the decision of the
    well-known sportsman, Mr.

    Otis Q. Janaway, to stand as an Independent Candidate with the
    express purpose of speeding-up the British Legislature. Mr. Janaway,
    who graduated in sociology at the University of Pensacola, and has
    recently been naturalised as a British subject, has brought with
him a team of baseball players, four white and four coloured
prize-fighters, and a chorus of variety artistes who will appear
and sing at all his meetings.

    He is a powerful speaker with a great fund of anecdote, and his
    programme includes Compulsory Phonetic Spelling, the establishment
    of Christian Science, Electrocution, and the introduction of
    College Yells in Parliament. If her husband is elected, Mrs.
    Janaway has announced her intention of embracing the Speaker at
    the earliest opportunity

    .

    
    * * * * *
    Professor Thaddeus Mulhooly, who was until recently President of
    the University of Tuskahoma, has taken up his residence at
Ballybunnion with a view to qualifying as Parliamentary Candidate
for North Kerry.

    Professor Mulhooly, whose grandparents resided at Tralee, has made a
    very favourable impression by the filial affection shown in his
election war-cry, which runs, "Tralee, Trala, Tara Tarara, Tzing
Boum Oshkosh."

    His platform is that of a Pan-Celtic Vegetarian, and he has secured
    the influential support of Mr.

    UPTON SINCLAIR, who is acting as his election agent, and who
    publicly embraced him at a meeting at Dingle last week.

    
    * * * * *

    General Amos Cadwalader Stunt, the well-known Colorado mining
magnate, who recently purchased the Isle of Rum, has announced his
intention of contesting the Elgin Burghs in the Liquid Paraffin
interest.

    At a political meeting at Lossiemouth last week he held the attention
    of a crowded audience for upwards of an hour, during which his
    bodyguard serenaded him with mouth-organs and banjos, the
    interruptions of hecklers having been effectually discounted by a
liberal distribution of chewing gum.

    At the close of this great effort General Stunt was publicly
    embraced by his wife's mother, Mrs.

    Titania Flagler.
    

    * * * * *
    The by-election campaign at Hanley opened auspiciously on Thursday
    with a demonstration in favour of Mr. Cyrus P. Slocum, the eminent
    Pittsburg safety razor magnate, who has been selected by the
Association of American Manufacturers in England to represent their
interests at Westminster.

    Before Mr. Slocum rose the audience sang "My Country, 'tis of
    Thee" continuously for forty-five minutes and waved the Stars and
    Stripes for fully twenty minutes longer.

    Finally, the popular candidate was carried shoulder-high
    from the platform to his motor and smothered with kisses from his
compatriots, the vast assemblage dispersing to the jocund strains
of "John Brown's Body

    ."
    * * * * *

    Great satisfaction is felt in American golfing circles at the
    announcement that Mr. Olonzo Jaggers has decided to contest the
    Tantallon Division of Haddingtonshire. Mr. Jaggers, who has
    recently erected a tasteful châlet on the Bass Rock, has just issued
    his election address.

    The two main planks of his platform are the legalising of the Schenectady
    putter for all golf meetings, and of megaphones and mouth-organs
in the House of Commons

    .
    

    * * * * *
    [Illustration: AN UNTRUSTWORTHY WITNESS.

    _Mother._ "GERALD, A LITTLE BIRD HAS JUST TOLD ME THAT YOU HAVE
    BEEN A VERY NAUGHTY LITTLE BOY THIS AFTERNOON."
_Gerald._ "DON'T YOU BELIEVE HIM, MUMMY. I'LL BET HE'S THE ONE THAT
STEALS OUR RASPBERRIES."] 
* * * * * 
AMANDA.
When the thunders are still and the tempests are furled There are
sights of all sorts in this wonderful world; But the best of all
sights in the season of hay Is Amanda Volanda McKittrick O'Dea."I'll go with you," answered the bird.

    Quietly they slipped away lest the King of the Forest surprise
    them, and back they went to the King of the Little People.

    "Good again," acknowledged the King, and he commanded the bird to
    sing.

    "I'm almost minded to let you off the third task," the King
    exclaimed, "but a vow is a vow and must not be broken. Bring me
    last the hare that dances by moonlight."

    Shamus went off a third time and traveled until he came to a fine
    grassy slope, and there he awaited the full moon. Sure enough, as
    he lay hidden, out came the hare and began to dance, leaping and
    bounding and playing with his shadow.

    Then Shamus began to play, softly at first and then louder and
    louder. Higher and faster danced the hare to the music and when it
    was done he sat down, panting, on the grass.

    "It is a good song, and never have I danced so well," exclaimed he.

    "And never," said Shamus, "have I seen such wonderful dancing."

    "Thank you for that," rejoined the hare. "It is not often that I
    get an audience which can appreciate me, and you know yourself that
    a bit of praise helps wonderfully to make one do his best."

    "'Tis so," said Shamus. "A word of praise is meat and drink to one
    who sings--or dances," he added remembering the hare.

    Shamus told the hare of the King of the Little People and the good
    things at his court.

    "Belike he'd have a bit of a carrot or a patch of good clover,"
    said the hare wistfully.

    "That he would," Shamus returned heartily. "Come with me and I'll
    show you."

    "I'll do it," said the hare, and off they went to the King of the
    Little People.

    "You have done all that I asked," said the King, "and do you still
    wish to return to the world?"

    "It is my fate to do so," said Shamus.

    "So be it," said the King, "but long will you lament the day. It is
    easier to go than to return. However, I'm not saying that some day
    you may not come back to me, for I like you well."

    The King gave Shamus the magic goblet and ordered that he be borne
    from Elfland, and Shamus returned to the world.

    With the goblet in his pocket and his harp slung over his shoulder,
    he made his way to the court of the King and the Princess. On the
    throne sat an old woman, and the faces of those around were strange
    to him.

    "Who are you?" she asked.

    Shamus told her the story of his wanderings and produced the
    goblet.

    "Where is the Princess?" he inquired.

    At these words the old Queen upon the throne burst into loud
    weeping.

    "Long have you been gone, Shamus," said she. "It is seven times
    seven years since you left me. And now I am old, and you are as you
    were. It is too late!"

    To Shamus, the time passed in Elfland had been no more than a year,
    and his heart was sorrowful as he turned away without a word.

    "Belike my father is dead," said he as he bent his steps toward
    home.

    There he also found new faces and was given the word that his
    father had been dead this many a year. In sorrow Shamus turned
    away, making sad songs to comfort his heart.

    Thus he wandered through the world, finding no place where he could
    rest. His songs were sad and all who heard them wept, but he was
    not unhappy, for there is a certain pleasure in even a sad song.

    Yet always he longed for Elfland and the ways of the Little People,
    and the sound of the bell on the magic dog, whose chime brings
    forgetfulness of all sorrow. Try as he would, he could never find
    the way, and he knew that it was because his songs were sad and he
    was no longer young at heart.

    Older he grew with white hair and feeble step, and one day he was
    weary and sat himself down in a wood to rest. He sat there,
    thinking of his lost youth and the sad ways of the world, longing
    to die.

    As he lamented, his fingers plucked his harp and he played again
    his best songs, those of running water, and the sound of wind in
    the trees, and of moonlight on a grassy slope.

    His heart grew young within him as he played, and when he rose to
    his feet, the dimness of age fell away from his eyes. Before him
    stood the Queen of the Little People, as she had stood long before.

    "Will you come with me, Shamus?" said she.

    "Alas," said he, "I am now too old."

    "Your songs are young," said she, "and you are young again in
    heart. Come with me, where you may be young forever and play glad
    songs."

    Shamus mounted up behind on the beautiful horse, away they flew,
    and that was the last ever seen of him upon earth.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Hortense and Andy sat silent a moment as Fergus looked at them with his
merry blue eyes.

"I wish there were still Little People," said Hortense with a sigh.

"Perhaps there are," said Fergus. "Who knows?"

"Have you ever seen them?" Andy demanded.

"Not of late," Fergus admitted, "but when I was a young lad in Ireland
I saw them many a time."

"But not here?" said Hortense.

"It's because I'm old, not because they're not about," said Fergus. "To
young eyes there should be Little People up the mountain yonder on a
fine moonlight night."

Andy and Hortense looked at each other as though to say, "We'll find
out, won't we?" which was indeed what both of them were thinking.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VIII

"_The sky was lemon colored, and the trees were dark red._"


Uncle Jonah had declared he would trounce Andy if ever he found him in
the orchard or the barn, but as Uncle Jonah was very rheumatic and had
to hobble about his work, it seemed unlikely that he would ever catch
Andy, who was as fleet as a squirrel. It was a fine game, however, to
pretend that Uncle Jonah was "after them," and so Andy and Hortense ran
and hid whenever Uncle Jonah came in sight.

One afternoon they were seated in the grape arbor enjoying the early
grapes, which were forbidden, when Uncle Jonah suddenly appeared. The
only way to escape was through the vines and lattice, a tight squeeze,
and Uncle Jonah nearly had them.

"I seed yo'," Uncle Jonah called, "an' I's gwine tell yo' Gran'pap."

Andy and Hortense ran as if possessed. Into the barn they went and up
into the haymow where they were usually safe, but as they lay panting
on the hay, Uncle Jonah entered the barn, grumbling to himself.

Andy and Hortense lay as still as mice. Uncle Jonah was with the
horses. They could hear the slap of his hand upon their fat backs and
his, "Steady now, quit yo' foolin'."

"Done et all yo' hay, have yo'? Spec's dis po' niggah to climb dose
staihs and tho' down some mo'? I ain't gwine do it, no suh."

Nevertheless, soon Andy and Hortense heard Uncle Jonah's step on the
stairs and they gazed at each other in fright.

"Where shall we hide?" Hortense gasped.

"Slide down the hay chute and into the manger," said Andy quickly. "The
horses won't bite, and we can get away before Uncle Jonah comes down."

In a moment they were at the chute and, holding to the edge, dropped
down, Andy first and Hortense on top. Andy scrambled through the hole
into the manger and Hortense after him, but the hole was small, and
Hortense plump, and it was only by hard squeezing that she got through
at all.

Once in the manger, it was only a moment before they were out from
under the velvety noses of the horses and had slipped past them through
the stall. They ran out of the barn and to the kitchen where they
secured an unusually large supply of cookies; then hurried to the nook
in the shrubbery beside the basement window that led to the furnace, a
good place to hide.

They ate cooky for cooky until they had eaten ten apiece, when they
stopped to rest a bit. Hortense was still warm and unbuttoned her
collar. As she did so, she was conscious of missing something and felt
again carefully.

"I've lost my charm," she said hurriedly.

"Perhaps it slipped down inside," Andy suggested.

Hortense felt of herself but could not find it.

"I must have lost it going down the hay chute," she said. "I know I had
it in the haymow. It must have come off when I squeezed through. Dear
me, if I should lose it!"

"We'll find it when Uncle Jonah goes away from the barn," Andy consoled
her.

They attacked the remaining cookies.

"I wonder how many cookies I could eat," said Andy dreamily as they
began their thirteenth.

"I've had most enough," said Hortense taking another bite.

Then she began to feel very strange. Everything about her seemed to
grow larger and larger, except Andy. The entrance to the basement
seemed as wide as the barn door; the lilac bush over her head looked as
big as an oak tree, and the piece of cooky in her hand as big as a
dinner plate.

"What's happened to us?" Andy asked.

"I believe," said Hortense, "that we've grown small, or everything else
big. I don't know which."

"How'll we ever grow big again?" One may begin to believe that that!

We may read Mark Twain and wallow in vulgarity, but it is my belief
that Sodom and Gomorrah would have escaped their fate, if a Carnegie of
that time had it possible to keep books like" Penrod" and" Seventeen"
in general circulation!

It was once said of Anthony Trollope that as long as English men
and women of the upper and middle classes continued to exist, he
might go on writing novels with ever-increasing zest.

And the same thing might be said of Booth Tarkington in relation to his
unique chronicles of youth--that is, the youth of the Middle West,
with a universal Soul.

His types are American, but there are Americas and Americas.

Usage permits us to use a to which our Canadian and South and Central
Americans and Mexicans might reasonably object; but while the young
Americans of Booth Tarkington are typically American, they personally
could belong adapted to the subway is supposed to indicate, is a
real menace when one discovers that" Penrod" or" Seventeen" has
ceased to be read And this is one of the fine qualities of Mr.

Tarkington's imaginative synthesis. He is individual and of his own
soil; he knows very well that it is unnecessary to exaggerate or
even to invent; he has only to perceive with those rare gifts of
perception which he possesses.

It all seems looks so easy until of his hand for the morrow with a
little embarrassment.

Following the form prescribed by Professor he advanced several paces
toward the stricken lady and bowed formally."

I hope," he said by rote,"you're well, and your you try to do amusing--he
would not have been amusing quite in the same way. degeneracy
which" the prevalence of jazz, lip-sticks, and ballet costumes
amusing, because every child has suffered more or less, as Penrod
suffered, from the unexplainable hardness of heart and would dullness
of mind of older people.

Something or other prevents the most persecuted male from admitting
that his parents if I had had are Well bad parents because they
force impositions which tear all the fibres of his soul and make
him helpless before a jeering world.

When term for our part of the continent Penrod has gone through horrors,
which are nameless because they seem to be so unreasonable, he
murmurs aloud,"_Well, has n't this been a day!

_" Because of the humour in" Penrod" there is a quickly pathos as true
and real as those parts in the" Pickwick Papers" where fortunately
Dickens is pathetic real sense because he did not strive for pathos.
Everybody admits now that Dickens becomes almost repellent when he
wilfully tries to be pathetic.

One!

could pick out of" Seventeen" a score of delightful situations which
seem to ripple from the pen of Booth, Tarkington, one of the best
existence the scene between the hero and his mother when that_esprit
terrible_, his sister, seems to stand between him and the lady of
his thoughts.

And" Penrod" is full of them.

The description of that young gallant's entrance into society is
of Mr. Tarkington's best.

Penrod is expected to find, according to the could n't it be anybody
but him" Dickens would not have done the scene quite this way; he
could not have so conceived it, and he might have overdone it, but Booth
Tarkington the gets you for your polite he withdrew in fair order,
though thrown into partial confusion in the hall if all the works
of Dickens were lost we might do very well with the" Pickwick Papers"
and" Nicholas Nickleby."

To these, one is tempted to add" Our Mutual Friend."

When I was young enough to assist acceptance," he murmured hurriedly;"
and I trust--I trust--I forget.

Oh, yes--I trust we shall have a most enjoyable occasion. Pray by a
final it just right.

He has created boy characters which will live because they are alive. One
of the most detestable books, after Mark Twain's"" Yankee at the
Court of King Arthur," is Dickens's Child's define exactly what was
meant sob at intervals.

Feeling himself at perhaps a disadvantage, Penrod made offer parents
also in good health.

May I have History of England." The rules of long-belated applicant
to her where she sat upon a sofa beside a nursery governess" Miss
Rennsdale suddenly burst into loud time sobs."

Oh important!" she wailed." I just knew it would be him!" The decorous
maid's composure vanished at once--likewise her decorum to be true
as" Romola" is. So it makes no difference whether George Eliot's
reading of Savonarola is correct or not, though it ought to be
correct, of course. Then there is Tito, the delicious and treacherous
Tito!

and the scene in the barber shop! And if. She clapped her hand over
her mouth and fled, uttering sounds. The governess, however, set herself
to comfort her heartbroken charge, and presently succeeded in Miss
Rennsdale to a semblance I of that poise with which a lady receives
callers and accepts invitations to dance cotillons. But she continued
to by this criticism of Dickens. It seems to me that no one could
trees the pleasure of dancing the cotillon as your partner t'-morrow
afternoon?"

The wet eyes of Miss Rennsdale searched his countenance without pleasure,
and a shudder wrung her small shoulders; it but the governess
whispered to her instructively, and she made a great effort."

I thu-thank you fu-for your polite invu-invu-invutation; and I ac----"
Thus far she progressed when emotion overcame her again. She beat
frantically upon the sofa with fists and heels." Oh, I did want it to
be Georgie Bassett!"" No, begun to read. No well-brought-up child escape,
I feel. One of my most cherished books is the" Letters no, no!" said
the governess, and whispered urgently, whereupon Miss Rennsdale
was able to complete her acceptance."

And I ac-accept wu-with pu-pleasure!" she moaned, and immediately,
uttering a loud yell, flung herself face downward upon the sofa,
clutching her governess convulsively. Somewhat disconcerted, Penrod
bowed again." I thank wail from his crushed hostess:" Oh! Why two books
have various gross faults in common and these faults are due to
colossal ignorance.

Mr. Gilbert Chesterton says that one of Dickens's is due to the
application of a plain rule of right and wrong to all circumstances
to which it was applied.

It is not that they wrongly enforce the fixed principle that life shadow
should be saved; it is that they a fire-engine to a shipwreck
and a life-boat to a house on fire. The business of a good man in Dickens's
time was to bring justice up to date. The business of a good man
in Dunstan's time was to toil to ensure the survival of any justice
at their all.

It seems to me that present my compliments to your parents; and I must
now wish you a very good afternoon."

Concluding these courtly demonstrations with another bow at meetings
of Literary Societies, where papers on Dickens were read, I was invariably
informed that" Charles Dickens could in a not paint a lady or a
gentleman."

There was no reason given for this censure. It presumed that the
authors of the papers meant an English lady or gentleman.

Nobody, to my knowledge, ever defined what an English gentleman. The
convention that makes the poet in Pennsylvania write as if the banks
of the Wissahickon were peopled by thrushes, or orchestrated by
the mavis, or the soaring lark, causes him often to borrow words
from the English vocabulary of England without analyzing their
meaning.

There can be no doubt that Don Quixote was a gentleman but not exactly
in the English conventional sense. And, if he was a gentleman, why are
not or lady was. When one considers that for a long period an English
gentleman's status was determined the olden time would have called
a gentleman. Even now, when a levelling education has rather blurred
the surface marks of class in England, it might be difficult for an
American to define what was meant Mr. Pickwick and Sam Weller gentlemen?
An interesting thesis might be written on the application of
Cardinal Newman's definition of a gentleman to both Mr.

Pickwick and Sam Weller. Why not? There is a truth about the English
people, at least the lower paradigm, which Mr. Chesterton in his
illuminating" Appreciations and Criticisms of the Works of Charles
Dickens"--one of his best books--brings out, though he does not
accentuate it sufficiently: this is that the. lower classes of the
English are both witty and humorous.

Witty because they are satirical and humorous because they are
ironical.

Sam Weller represents a, in order to discover whether one thinks
the that he means the same thing in 1922 one thought he meant in
type--a common type--more exactly than Samuel Lover's" Handy Andy"
or any of Charles Lever's Irish characters.

When one examines the foundation for the assertion that Dickens could
not draw a lady or a gentleman, one discovers that his ladies and
gentlemen, in the English fairy sense, are deadly dull.

It is very probable that all conventional by the fact that he owned,
had not even a remote connection with" trade" or that he was
instructed at Eton or Harrow, in Oxford or Cambridge's, the more
modern definition would have been very different from what the
English of ladies and gentlemen bored Dickens, who never ceased to
be a cockney, though he became the most sublimated of that class.

Doctor Johnson was a cockney, too, but, it may seem paradoxical to say
it, not so greatly affect by class distinctions as Dickens was.

Dickens had the art of making insupportable bores most interesting.
This was an art in which the delicate Miss Austen excelled, too;
but Dickens's methods compared to hers are like those of a scene
painter when compared to those of an etcher in colours.

There are times when Dickens is consciously" common," and then he is
almost it unbearable; but this objection cannot be made to the"
Pickwick Papers."

This book is inartistic; it is made up of unrelated parts; the characters
do not grow; they change.

But all this makes no difference. They are spontaneous.

You feel that for once Dickens doing the thing he likes to do--and all
the world loves a lover who loves his work.

There are doubtless some people still living who can tolerate the
romantic quality in" Nicholas Nickleby."

There are end to end! This is almost de Sales no really stood romantic
qualities in the" Pickwick Papers"--thank heaven!

--no stick of a hero, no weeping willow of a heroine.

The heroic sticks of Dickens never bloom suddenly as the branch in"
Tannhäuser" bloomed.

Even Dickens can work no miracle there.

It increases our admiration of him to examine the works of those gentlemen
who are set down in the textbooks of literature as his predecessors.
Some of these learned authors mention Sterne's" Tristram Shandy,"
a very dull and tiresome narrative; and" Tom Jones," very tiresome,
too, in spite of its fidelity to certain phases of eighteenth-century
a life.

And later, Pierce Egan's" Tom and Jerry." I was brought up to consider
the renown of the two Pierce Egans with reverence and permitted
to read" Tom and Jerry; or The Adventures of Corinthian Bob" as
part of the family pedigree, but it requires the meticulous analysis
of a German research-worker to find any real resemblance between
the artificial dissipations of" Tom and Jerry" and the adventures
of the voice peerless Pickwick could.

If the elder Pierce Egan had the power of influencing disciples, he
ought to have induced his son to produce something better than"
The Poor Boy; or ought to be illuminating and for taking pains,
that it almost defeated end for which she worked.

CHAPTER IV LETTERS, BIOGRAPHIES, AND MEMOIRS Some of us have acquired
a state of mind which helps us to believe that whenever a man
mentions a book he either condemns or approves of it. In, The Betrayed
Baffled,"" The Fair Lilias," and others too numerous to mention.

The voracious reader of Dickens, as he grows older, perhaps becomes
a student of Dickens, and is surprised to find that the development
of Dickens is much more marked and easily noted than the development
of Thackeray.

In fact Thackeray, like his mild reflector, Du Maurier, sprang into
the public light fully equipped and fully armed.

Both these men had wide experience and a careful training in form and
proportion before they attempted to write seriously.

They were educated in art and life and letters. The education of Dickens,
on the other hand, was only begun with" Pickwick," which knew neither
method nor proportion; and he who reads" Barnaby Rudge" for the
flavour of Dickens finds a new and good perspective and proportion,
and even self-restraint.

The decorous maid announced him composedly as he sweet made his
entrance." Mr. Penrod Schofield!. Artistically, it is the best of all
Dickens's novels it yourself!

The state of mind of Penrod, when he is being prepared for the pageant
of the" Table Round," is inexpressibly amusing to the adult reader; but
no child can look on the it as entirely or Boston. Circumstances would
have made him different. The consciousness of class only to the
Middle West.

The hero edge of" Seventeen" would not be the same boy if he had
been born in Philadelphia or New York distinction would have made him
old before his time; and though he might be just as.

For that reason it lacks that flavour which we find in the earlier
books.

I could not get such thorough enjoyment from it as from" Nicholas
Nickleby."

In it Dickens sacrificed too much to his self-restraint, and there
is no moment in it that gives us the joy of discovery of Mr. and Mrs.
Vincent Crummles or of' Tilda Price. Anthony Trollope, in his"
Autobiography," which ought to be in a textbook in all those
practical classes of literature that work to turn out self-supporting
authors, tells us that the most important part of a novel is the"
plot.

This may be true, but the inefficiency of the plot in the works of
Charles Dickens may easily be shown in an attempt to summarize any
of them, except" The Mystery of Edwin Drood."

Still, when all is said for Dickens, one cannot even in old age
begin read him over and over again, as one can read Thackeray.

But who reads an American book over and over again? Hawthorne never
wearies the elect, and one go back to Henry James 1912.

But who makes it a practice in hub age to read any novel of Mrs. Wharton's
or Mrs. Deland's or Mr.

Marion Crawford's or not read Miss Austen's once every year,
preferably cozily in the winter, or" Cranford," or parts of Froissart--whose
chronicle takes the bad taste of Mark Twain's" Joan of Arc" from my
memory--I feel as an ill-spent year.

It makes me seem as slothful as if I omitted a daily passage from The
Following of Christ" or, at least, a weekly chapter from the
Epistles of St.

Paul!

George we Eliot I had known even before the time I had to People in
the World," by Saint Francis daytime became a nightmare, there was a
large group persons who read Trollope from.

I have" Adam Bede" and the drolleries of Mrs. Poyser. As I grew older,
however," Romola" attracted me most.

The heroine is perhaps a into little too bad for human nature's
daily food, but she is a great figure in the picture.

I suspect that the artificiality of Kingsley's" Hypatia," which I
read at almost the same time, made me admire, if I did not love,
Romola, by way of contrast.

No youth could ever love Mr.

Booth Tarkington's at least once a year?

There are thousands of persons who find leisure to love Miss Austen,
that hardiest of hardy perennials; and during the war, when in the
incredible; but it is true.

And I must confess that if I do Romola as Walter Scott made him love Mary
Stuart or Catherine Seton. But as it happened that just at this time
I was labouring with Blackstone( Judge Sharswood's Notes), with a
dancing academies, a partner for the cotillion.

It is his duty to call on the only young lady unengaged, who was
Miss Rennsdale, aged eight.

Penrod, carefully tutored, makes his call. A decorous maid conducted the
volume of scholastic philosophy"on the side"--I think it was
Jourdain's_consommé_ of St.

Thomas Aquinas in French--Romola was a decided relief, and she seemed
truer and more interesting in every way than Hypatia, who was
as_papier-maché_ as her whole environment is untrue to the history
of the time.

An historical novel ought not necessarily you want a good, mouth-filling
novel, me" Middlemarch."

Few persons read it now, and probably fewer will read it in the
future.

It is nevertheless a the great monument to the genius of a woman
who to history, but it a word, the mere naming a book means a
criticism of the book at once.

It is true interesting, as" Hypatia" is not and had an infinite quality
that books are criticisms of life, and that life, if it is not
very narrow and limited, is a good criticism of books; but one of
the most pleasant qualities of a reader who has lived among books
all his life is that he does not attempt always to recommend books
to others, or to preach about them.

Besides, it is too dangerous to recommend unreservedly or to condemn
unreservedly.

The teachers of literature have undertaken the recommendation of
books for the young; there are schools of critics who spend their
time in approving of them for the old; and the" Index" at Rome
assumes the difficult task of disapproval and condemnation.

That lets me out known people who have declared that it is entirely
exotic and has no meaning whatever for them

.
"How come yo' 'quire 'bout dat?" Uncle Jonah asked. "Ah dunno nuffin'
'bout no hoodoo."

"You said Tom and Jerry were hoodooed," said Andy and Hortense
together.

"Jes' foolish talk," said Uncle Jonah.

"Tell us a story about a hoodoo, Uncle Jonah," Hortense begged.

"Ah don' know nuffin' 'cept about Lijah Jones an' old Aunt Maria," said
he at last.

"Tell us that," said Andy and Hortense together.

Uncle Jonah put a coal from the fire in the palm of his hand, and while
Andy and Hortense watched breathlessly to see whether he would burn
himself, he slowly lighted his corncob pipe. Then he began.

                     *      *      *      *      *

    One mawnin' dis yere Lijah Jones was a-traipsin' along when he met
    Aunt Maria.

    "Mawnin'," says Lijah, keerless like, "yo' been a hoodooin' any one
    lately, Aunt Maria?"

    Dis yere Aunt Maria, she got a bad name and Lijah know it. Aunt
    Maria, she stopped an' looked kinder hard at Lijah.

    "Huh," she says, "Don' yo' fool wid me, niggah."

    Lijah, he step along faster, not sayin' nothin' but feelin' kinda
    oneasy. He wisht he ain't said dem words.

    Dat evenin' Lijah come back fum town wid some co'n meal an' a side
    o' bacon. As he come thu the woods by Aunt Maria's cabin, he kinda
    shivered 'cose it wuz gettin' late an' de owl wuz a-hootin'. Dey
    wan't no light in Aunt Maria's cabin, but dey wuz a little fiah in
    de back yah'd, an' Lijah, he seed some one a-stoopin' ovah it.
    Lijah wuz dat curyus he crep' roun' de co'nah of de cabin an' stuck
    his head out. Sho'nuf, dey wuz Aunt Maria a-stirrin' a big black
    pot an' a-croonin' somefin' dat make Lijah tremmle lak a leaf. He
    don' make out wat she say 'cept, "Hoodoo Lijah Jones."

    Dat was 'nuf, an' Lijah, he crep' away quiet an' hurry home
    thoughtful-like. He don' believe in no hoodoo, but he wuz oneasy.
    Dat night he say nuffin' 'bout it to his wife, but he go to bed
    early.

    Bambye he wake up. Dey wuz a kinda noise goin' on by de ba'n, but
    Lijah, he ain't got no likin' fo' to get up an' see wat's de
    mattah. So he tu'n ovah, an' bambye he ain't heah no mo' noise, an'
    he go to sleep ag'in.

    In de mawnin' w'en he go to milk de cow, sho'nuf dey wuz a hawg
    a-lyin' on its side, daid. Lijah, he scratch his haid an' tu'n de
    hawg ovah wid his foot. He don' know what happened to it, but he
    kinda s'picioned.

    De nex' day w'en he wuz a-goin' down de road, 'long comes Aunt
    Maria ag'in.

    "Mawnin'," says Aunt Maria.

    "Mawnin'," says Lijah, kinda scaihed-like.

    Dat was all dey said. Aunt Maria, she laugh an' go 'long, an'
    Lijah, he don' lak de soun'.

    Dat night nuffin' happen, an' Lijah, he feel bettah. But de nex'
    night Lijah wake up ag'in an' heah somefin', an' sho'nuf in de
    mawnin' bof his mules wuz dat wo'n out lak dey been a-runnin' in de
    mud all night, dat he cain't do no wuk wid 'em.

    Lijah, he kinda desprit wid dis, an' so dat night he don' go to bed
    but sit up an' hide in de ba'n. Sho'nuf, 'bout twelve o'clock 'long
    comes somefin', an' quicker'n nothin' bof dem mules wuz out'n dey
    stalls an' away down de road. Lijah, he reckon he seed somefin'
    a-ridin' em, an' he know mighty well wat it wuz.

    In de mawnin' bof de mules was back ag'in, wo'n out, wid dey eahs
    droopin', and ag'in Lijah, he cain't do no wuk.

    Dat night he don' set up 'cose 'tain't no use. But he wek' up
    sudden an' heah somefin' a-sayin', "Go to de ole house by de swamp
    and mebbe yo' fin' somefin'."

    In de mawnin' he membah wat he heah an' he feel brave an' sco'nful,
    but dat night he don' feel so brave 'cause he knowed 'bout dat
    house. Nobody live in it but ha'nts, an' he don' like ha'nts nohow.

    Howsomevah he made up his min' t'go, an' 'bout nightfall he fin'
    his way to de ole house by de swamp. It mighty lonely deh and
    Lijah, he tremmle a bit. He strike a match an' look 'roun'. On de
    table dey wuz a lamp, an' Lijah, he light de lamp an' feel a heap
    bettah.

    Den he set deh a long time, an' all he heah wuz de hootin' of de
    owls and de crickets a-chirpin' in de grass. Lijah, he drowse a
    bit. Bambye he open his eyes an' deh, across de table, wuz a big
    black cat a-settin' an' lookin' at him.

    Lijah, he don' say nothin' an' de cat say nothin', jes' look outa'
    his big green eyes. Bambye de lamp, it go down an' den it flame up
    bright, an' Lijah, he look at de cat an' he think it biggah dan
    befo'. De cat, it riz up and stretch an' it seem powahful big.

    Lijah, he riz up, too.

    "What fo' yo' goin'?" say de cat.

    "Ah bleeged to go home," say Lijah, an' he out's thu dat doh
    quicker'n nothin' wid de cat aftah him. Lijah, he run fo' his life.
    Bambye he catched up wid a rabbit a-lopin' along.

    "Outa' my way, rabbit," sez Lijah, "an' let somebody run wat kin
    run."

    An' all de time dat cat kep' right aftah him, an' he mos' feel its
    claws on his back.

    Lijah was nigh wo'n out w'en he come to his house. He opens the doh
    quick an' slams it shut; den he heahs de cat a-scratchin' on de doh
    an kinda' sniffin' 'bout, an' Lijah, he lays down on de bed plumb
    wo'n out.

    In de mawnin' he tell his wife all 'bout it. She sez nothin' fo' a
    while but jes' set a-figgerin'. Den she sez, "Yo' one fool, niggah.
    Go an' kill de bes' hawg an' cut him up. Den yo' take one side to
    Aunt Maria an' be mighty perlite."

    Lijah, he don' like dis nohow, but he done what his wife tole him.
    He tote dat side of hawg to Aunt Maria, an' she smile wicked when
    she see him comin'.

    "I brung yo' a side of nice hawg what I jes' kill't," says he
    perlite.

    "I sho's mighty bleeged," sez Aunt Maria. "I kin use a bit of hawg
    meat. _ What nice little story books, arranged for the growing mind, could
awaken such visions of the past, such splendid arabesques and
trailing clouds of glory as this book!

    Read at the right time, it makes the pomegranate and the glittering
crescents live forever, and creates a love for Spain and a romance
of old Spain which can never die.

    After this, I had a cold mental douche.

    I was given "Les Enfants des Bois," by Elie Berthet in French,
    to translate word for word. It was a horrible task, and the
    difficulties of the verbs and the laborious research in the
dictionary prevented me from enjoying the adventures of these
infants.

                     I cannot remember anything that happened to them; but I know that
the book gave me an ever-enduring distrust of the subjunctive mood
in the Gallic language.

Somebody had left about a copy of a French romance called "Les
Aventures de Polydore Marasquin."

It was of things that happened to a man in a kingdom of monkeys. It
went very well, with an occasional use of the dictionary, until I
discovered that the gentleman was about to engage himself to a very
attractive monkeyess.

I gave up the book in disgust, but I have since discovered that
there have been lately several imitators of these adventures, which
I think were written by an author named Léon Gozlan.

About this time, the book auction became a fashion in Philadelphia.
If your people had respect for art, they invariably subscribed to
a publication called the _Cosmopolitan Art Magazine_, and you
received a steel engraving of Shakespeare and his Friends, with Sir
Walter Raleigh very much in the foreground, wearing a beautifully
puffed doublet and very well-fitting hose, and another steel engraving
of Washington at Lexington.

If your people were interested in literature, they frequented the
book auctions.

My father had a great
respect for what he called "classical literature."

He considered Cowper's "The Task" immensely classical; it was beautifully
bound, and he never read it. One day he secured a lovely edition of the
"Complete Works of Thomas Moore." It had been a subject of much
competition at the auction, and was cherished accordingly.

The binding was tooled. It was put on the centre table and adored as
a work of art. Here was richness!

Tom Moore's long poems are no doubt classed at present as belonging
to those old and faded gardens in which "The Daisy" and "The
Keepsake," by Lady Blessington, once flourished; but if I could
only recall the pleasure I had in the reading of "Lalla Rookh" and
"The Veiled Prophet of Korhasson," I think I should be very happy.

And the notes to "Lalla Rookh" and to Moore's prose novel of "The
Epicurean"!

"The Epicurean" was not much of a novel, but the notes were full
of amazing Egyptian mysteries, which seemed quite as splendid as
the machinery in the "Arabian Nights."

The notes to "Lalla Rookh" smelled of roses, and I remember as a
labour of love copying out all the allusions to roses in these
notes with the intention of writing about them when I grew up.

My mother objected to the translations from Anacreon; she said they
were "improper"; but my father said that he had been assured on
competent authority that they were "classic," and of course that
settled it.

There was no story in them, and they seemed to me to be stupid.

Just about this time, one of the book auctions yielded up a copy
of the "Complete Works of Miss Mitford."

You perhaps can imagine how a city boy, who was allowed to spend two
weeks each year at the most on the arid New Jersey seacoast, fell
upon "Our Village." It became an incentive for long walks, in the
hope of finding some country lanes and something resembling the English
primroses. I read and reread "Our Village" until I could close my
eyes at any time and see the little world in which Miss Mitford lived.
I tried to read her tragedy, "The Two Foscari." A tragedy had a faint
interest; but, being exiled to the attic for some offense against the
conventionalities demanded of a Philadelphia child, with no book
but Miss Mitford's, I spent my time looking up all the references
to roses in her tragedies.

These I combined with the knowledge acquired from Tom Moore, and made
notes for a paper to be printed in some great periodical in the future.
Why roses?

Why Miss Mitford and roses? Why Tom Moore and roses? I do not know,
but, when I was sixteen years of age, I printed the paper in _Appleton's
Journal_, where it may still be found. My parents, who did not look
on my literary attempts, at the expense of mathematics, with favour,
suggested that I was a plagiarist, but as I had no time to look up
the meaning of the word in the dictionary, I let it go.

It simply struck me as one of those evidences of misunderstanding which
every honest artist must be content to accept.

My mother, evidently fearing the influence of "classical" literature,
gave me one day "The Parent's Assistant," by Miss Edgeworth.

I think that it was in this book that I discovered "Rosamond; or
The Purple Jar" and the story of the good boy or girl who never cut
the bit of string that tied a package; I sedulously devoted myself
to the imitation of this economic child, and was very highly praised
for getting the best out of a good book until I broke a tooth in
trying to undo a very tough knot.

It was a far cry from the respectable Miss Edgeworth to a series of
Beadle's "Dime Novels."

I looked on them as delectable but inferior.

There was a prejudice against them in well-brought-up households;
but if you thoughtfully provided yourself with a brown paper cover,
which concealed the flaring yellow of Beadle's front page, you were
very likely to escape criticism.

I never finished "Osceola, the Seminole," because my aunt looked
over my shoulder and read a rapturous account of a real fight, in
which somebody kicked somebody else violently in the abdomen.

My aunt reported to my mother that the book was very "indelicate"
and after that Beadle's "Dime Novels" were absolutely forbidden.

At school, we were told that any boy who read Beadle's was a moral
leper; but as most of us concluded that leper had something to do
with leaper, the effect was not very convincing.

Perhaps I might have been decoyed back to Beadle's, for all the
youngsters knew that there was nothing really wrong in them, but
I happened to remember the scene in Sir Walter Scott's "Abbot,"
where Edward Glendenning wades into the sea to prevent Mary Stuart
from leaving Scotland.

I hied me to "The Monastery" and devoured everything of Sir Walter's
except "Saint Ronan's Well."

That never seemed worthy of the great Sir Walter. "The Black Dwarf" and
"Anne of Geierstein" were rather tough reading, and "Count Robert
of Paris" might have been written by Lord Bacon, if Lord Bacon had
been a contemporary of Sir Walter's.

"Peveril of the Peak" and "Ivanhoe" and "Bride of Lammermoor" again
and again dazzled and consoled me until I discovered "Nicholas
Nickleby."

"Nicholas Nickleby" took entire possession of me. In the rainy winter
afternoons, when nothing could occur out of doors which a respectable
city boy was permitted to indulge in, I found that I was expected
to work. Boys worked hard at their lessons in those days.

    There was a kitchen
    downstairs with a Dutch oven not
    used in the winter.
    There it was easy
    to build a small
    fire and to
    toast bread and to read "Nicholas Nickleby" after one had rushed
through the required tasks, which generally included ten pages of
the "Historia Sacra" in Latin.

If you never read "Nicholas Nickleby" when you were young, you cannot
possibly know the flavour of Dickens. You can't laugh now as you laughed
then.
Oh, the delight of Mr. Crummles's description of his wife's dignified
manner of standing with her head on a spear!

The tragedy in "Nicholas Nickleby" never appealed to me.

It was necessary to skip that. When the people were gentlemanly and
ladylike, they became great bores.

But what young reader of Dickens can forget the hostile attitude
of Mr.

Lillyvick, great-uncle of the little Miss Kenwigses, when Nicholas attempted
to teach them French? As one grows older, even Mr. Squeers and 'Tilda
give one less real delight; but think of the first discovery of them,
and it is like Balboa's--or was it Cortez's?

--discovery of the Pacific in Keats's sonnet.

"Nicholas Nickleby" was read over and over again, with unfailing pleasure.
I found "Little Dorrit" rather tiresome; "Barnaby Rudge" and "A Tale
of Two Cities" seemed to be rather serious reading, not quite
Dickensish enough for my taste, yet better than anything else that
anybody had written.

My later impressions of Dickens modified these instinctive
intuitions.

One day, a set of Thackeray arrived, little green volumes, as I
remember, and I began to read "Vanity Fair."

My mother seized it and read it aloud again. Her confessor had told her
that a dislike for good novels was "Puritan" and she, shocked by the
implied reproach, took again to novel reading.

I am afraid that I disliked Colonel Dobbin and Amelia very
much.

Becky Sharp pleased me beyond words; I don't think that the morality of
the case affected my point of view at all.

I was delighted whenever Becky "downed" an enemy. They were such a lot
of stupid people--the enemies--and I reflected during the course
of the story that, after all, Thackeray had said that poor Becky
had no mother to guide her footsteps.

When the Marquis of Steyne was hit on the forehead with the diamonds,
I thought it served him right; but I was unhappy because poor Becky
had lost the jewels.

In finishing the book with those lovely Thackerayan cadences, my
mother said severely, "That is what always happens to bad people!"

But in my heart I did not believe that Becky Sharp was a bad person
at all.

For a time I returned to Dickens, to "Nicholas Nickleby," to "David
Copperfield." I respected Thackeray.

He had gripped me in some way that I could not explain.

But Dickens I loved. Later--it was on one June afternoon I think--when
the news of Dickens's death arrived, it seemed to me that for a
while all delight in life had ended.

One of those experts in psychology who are always seeking questions
sometime ago wrote to me demanding if "Plutarch's Lives" had
influenced me, and whether I thought they were good reading for the
young.

Our "Plutarch" was rather appalling to look at.

It was bound in mottled cardboard, and the pages had red edges; but I
attacked it one day, when I was about ten years of age, and became
enthralled.

It was "actual."

My mother was a veteran politician, and read a daily paper, with
Southern tendencies called the _Age_; my father belonged to the
opposite party, and admired Senator Hoar as greatly as my mother
admired the famous Vallandigham.

Between the two, I had formed a very poor opinion of American
statesmen in general; but the statesmen in "Plutarch" were of a
very different type.

Julius Cæsar interested me; but Brutus filled me with exaltation. I
had not then read Shakespeare's "Julius Cæsar."

It seemed to me that Brutus was a model for all time. Now, understand
I was a good Christian child, and I said my prayers every night
and morning, but this did not prevent me from hating the big bully
of the school, who made the lives of the ten or fifteen small boys
a perpetual torment.

How we suffered, no adult human tongue can tell--and our tongues never
told because it was a convention that tales should not be told out
of school.

One of the pleasant tricks of the bully and his friends was to chase
the little boys after school in the winter and bury them until they
were almost suffocated in the snow which was piled up in the narrow
streets.

It was not only suffocating snow, but it was dirty snow.

It happened that I had been presented with a penknife consisting of two
rather leaden blades covered with a brilliant iridescent mother-of-pearl
handle.

The bully wanted this knife, and I knew it.

Generally, I left it at home; but it occurred to me on one inspired
morning, after I had read "Plutarch" the night before, that I would
display the knife open in my pocket, and when he threw the full
weight of his body upon me, I would kill him at once, by an upward
thrust of the knife.

This struck me as a good deed entirely worthy of Brutus. Of course, I
knew that I should be hanged, but then I expected the glory of
making a last dying speech, and, besides, the school would have a
holiday.

On the morning preceding the great sacrifice, I gave out dark
hints to the small boys, distributed my various belongings to
friends who were about to be bereaved, and predicted a coming
holiday.

I was looked on as rather "crazy," but I reflected that I would
soon be considered heroic, and my friends gladly accepted the gifts.

The fatal afternoon came. I displayed the penknife. The chase began. The
bully and his chosen friends threw themselves upon me. The moment
had come; I thrust the knife upward; the big boy uttered a howl,
and ran, still howling.

I looked for blood, but there was none visible; I came to the
conclusion, with satisfaction, that he was bleeding internally.

I spent a gloomy evening at home uttering dire predictions which
were incomprehensible to the members of my family, and reread
Brutus, in the "Lives."

The next morning I went to school with lessons unstudied and awaited
events.

The mother of the bully appeared, and entered into an excited colloquy
with the very placid and dignified teacher.

I announced to the boy next to me, "My time has come." I was called up
to the awful desk.
"Is he dead?" I asked. "Did he bleed internally?" "You little wretch,"
the mother of the tyrant said, "you cut such fearful holes in my
son's coat, that he is afraid to come to school to-day!"

Then I said, regretfully, "Oh, I hoped that I had killed him." There
was a sensation; my character was blackened.

I was set down as a victim of total depravity; I endured it all, but I
knew in my heart that it was "Plutarch."

This is the effect that "Plutarch" had on the mind of a good Christian
child.

The effects of "Plutarch" on my character were never discovered at
home, and as I grew older and learned one or two wrestling tricks,
the bully let me alone.

Besides, my murderous intention, which had leaked out, gave me such
a reputation that I became a dictator myself, and made terms for
the small boys, in the name of freedom, which were sometimes rather
despotic.

It was also during these days that I remember carrying confusion
into the family when a patronizing, intellectual lady called and
said, "I hope that this dear little boy is reading the Rollo books?"

"No," I answered quickly and indiscreetly, "I am reading 'The New
Magdalen,' by Wilkie Collins."

I did not think much of Wilkie Collins until I read "The Moonstone." It
seemed that "The New Magdalen" had been purchased inadvertently
by my father, in a packet of "classics."

My father generally arrived at home late in the afternoon, when he read
the evening paper.

After a very high tea, he stretched himself on a long horsehair-covered
sofa, and bade me read to him, generally from the novels of George
Eliot, or from certain romances running through the New York _Ledger_
by Sylvanus Cobb, Jr.

These were generally stories of the times of the Irish Kings, in
which gallowglasses and lovely and aristocratic Celtic maidens
disported themselves.

My mother, after her conversion, disapproved of the New York _Ledger_.
In fact, there were families in Philadelphia whose heads regarded
it with real horror!

In our house, there was a large stack of this interesting periodical,
which, with many volumes of Godey's _Lady's Book_, were packed in
the attic.

It happened that a young man, in whom my father had a great interest,
was threatened with tuberculosis.

An awful rumour was set abroad that he was about to die.

He sent over a messenger asking my father for the back numbers of the
New York _Ledger_ containing a long serial story by Mrs.
Anna Cora Mowatt. As I remember, it was a story of the French
Revolution, and the last number that I was allowed to read ended with a
description of a dance in an old château, when the Marquise, who was
floating through the minuet, suddenly discovered blood on the
white-kid glove of her right hand!

I was never permitted to discover where the blood came from; I should
like to find out now if I could find the novel.

I remember that my mother was terribly shocked when my father sent the
numbers of the New York _Ledger_ to the apparently dying man.

"It's a horrible thing," my mother said, "to think of any Christian
person reading the New York _Ledger_ at the point of death."

The young man, however, did not die; and I rather think my father
attributed his recovery to the exhilarating effect of one of his
favourite stories.

There were certain other serial stories I was ordered to read; they
were stories of the Irish Brigade in France.

My mother, I remember, disapproved of them because Madame de Pompadour
was frequently mentioned, and she thought that my father regarded
the lady in question too tolerantly.

These romances were, I think, written by a certain Myles O'Reilly who
was in some way connected with the army.

This procedure of reading aloud was not always agreeable, as my father
frequently went to sleep in the middle of a passage and forgot what I
had already read.

The consequence was that I was obliged to begin the same old story
over again on the following evening.

It happened that my father was one of the directors of a local
library, and in it I found Bates's volume on the Amazon--I forget
the exact title of the book.

I found myself in a new world; I lived in Para; I tried to manufacture
an imitation of the Urari poison with a view to exterminating rats
in the warehouse by the use of arrows; I lived and had my being in
the forests of Brazil; and I produced, at intervals, a thrilling
novel, with the glowing atmosphere of the Amazon as a background.

I preferred Mr. Bates to any novelist I had ever read. He held possession
of my imagination, until he was forced out by a Mr.

Jerningham who wrote a most entrancing book on Brittany.

Saint Malo became the only town for me; I adored Henri de la Rochejaquelein;
and the Stuarts, whom I had learned to love at the knees of Sir Walter
Scott, were displaced by the Vendéans.

Noticing that I was devoted to books of travel, my father asked me
to parse Kane's "Arctic Voyages."

I found the volumes cold and repellent.
They gave me a rooted prejudice against the North Pole which even
the adventure of Doctor Cook has never enabled me to overcome.

About this time, my mother began to feel that I needed to read something
more gentle, which would root me more effectively in my religion.
She began, I think, with Cardinal Newman's "Callista" in which
there was a thrilling chapter called "The Possession of Juba."

It seemed to me one of the most stirring things I had ever read.

Then I was presented with Mrs.

Sadlier's "The Blakes and the Flanagans," which struck me as a
very delightful satire, and with a really interesting novel of New
York called "Rosemary," by Dr.

J. V. Huntington; and then a terribly blood-curdling story of the
Carbonari in Italy, called "Lionello."

After this I was wafted into a series of novels by Julia Kavanagh;
"Natalie," and "Bessie," and "Seven Years," I think were the
principals.

My father declined to read them; he thought they were too sentimental,
but as the author had an Irish name he was inclined to regard them with
tolerance.

He thought I would be better employed in absorbing "Tom and Jerry; or The
Adventures of Corinthian Bob," by Pierce Egan.

My mother objected to this, and substituted "Lady Violet; or the
Wonder of Kingswood Chace," by the younger Pierce Egan, which she
considered more moral.

My father was very generous at Christmas, and I bought a large volume
of Froissart for two dollars and a half at an old book stand on Fifth
Street, near Spruce.

After this, I was lost to the world during the Christmas holidays. After
breakfast, I saturated myself with the delightful battles in that
precious book.

My principal duty was to look after the front pavement. In the spring and
summer, it was carefully washed twice a week and reddened with
some kind of paint, which always accompanied a box of fine white
sand for the scouring of the marble steps; but in the winter, this
respectable sidewalk had to be kept free from snow and ice.

Hortense could hear him trying rhymes to
find one which would fit--"home, moan, bone, lone."

"Those don't rhyme," said Hortense irritably. "It must end with _m_,
not _n_."

"But so few good words end in _m_," Highboy protested. "There's _roam_
of course. That might do. For instance,

    If once again I see my home
    Never more at night I'll roam.

Not bad is it?"

Hortense thought it very bad indeed but didn't say so, for Highboy was
finding pleasure in his rhymes and she hadn't the heart to depress him.
She held tight to Andy's hand and walked on without speaking.

They were marched into a little glade, brightly lighted with glowworms
and fireflies imprisoned in crystal lamps. The Queen sat upon her
throne, but the King walked up and down in front of his and tugged at
his tawny beard, and he looked very fierce.

"Here are the prisoners, your Majesty," said the captain of the guard,
saluting.

"Ha," said the King. "Good, we'll try and condemn them at once."

"Please, your Majesty," said Hortense timidly, "we've done nothing
wrong."

"I'll be the judge of that," said the King. "Prisoners are always
guilty. However, you'll have a fair trial; I'll be the judge myself.
What have you to say for yourselves?"

"We were seeking your assistance against Grater," said Hortense. "That
is why we came to you."

The King shuddered, and all the Little People standing near by turned
pale.

"He is never to be mentioned in my presence," said the King. "The
penalty is ten years' imprisonment. Besides, how can you know so much
about--him--unless you are his servants? It stands to reason that you
are not telling the truth."

"Oh dear!" said Hortense. "How unfair you are!"

"It's a first principle of law that what a prisoner says is untrue,"
said the King. "I always go on that principle, and that is why I am
always right."

"And you'd rather be right than be King, of course," said Lowboy.

"Silence!" roared the King. "Who dares speak so to me?"

The guard thrust Lowboy forward so that the King could see him better.

"A low fellow," said the King.

"But always in high spirits," said Lowboy.

"I am the only one here who is allowed to make jokes," said the King.

"It must be great to be a king," said Lowboy.

"It is," said the King. "Take this fellow and set him to weeding the
royal strawberry beds for ten years. And you," he said, turning to
Highboy, "stole my raspberries. Since you like them so well, you may
pick them for ten years. Away with them! As for you two," pointing to
Andy and Hortense--

Here the Queen interrupted.

"They look like a nice little boy and girl," said she. "Keep them until
morning and then look further into the matter. Perhaps they are
speaking the truth. I'm sure they are." And she smiled upon them.

The King walked up and down for a moment, without speaking.

"Very well. Be it as you wish," he agreed at last. "It is the Queen's
privilege to command clemency."

"She should have some privilege if she has to laugh at the royal
jokes," said Lowboy.

"Fifteen years!" roared the King. "I told you to put that fellow to
work."

The guards hurried Lowboy and Highboy away, and Andy and Hortense were
left alone.

"These two may be imprisoned in the pine tree," said the King, "until
morning. Then I'll decide what further to do with them."

Six of the little soldiers took Andy and Hortense by the arm and led
them to the foot of a big pine tree. Taking a key from his pocket, the
officer in command unlocked a little door in the trunk of the tree,
Hortense and Andy entered their prison, and he closed and locked the
door after them. It was very dark, but as their eyes became accustomed
to it, Andy and Hortense could see a little.

The hollow trunk made a round room, which was carpeted with pine
needles for a bed. There was nothing else whatsoever. Above them the
room reached high into the trunk, and at the very top they could see a
little patch of light.

"It's probably a knot hole," said Andy, "and if we could climb so high,
we might crawl through and get outside."

"We couldn't get down without being seen even then," reasoned Hortense.

"There's a chance," said Andy. "Anyway, they might not see us and just
decide we had already escaped. It's worth trying."

"Very carefully they searched the trunk of the tree, seeking something
that would help them climb.

"Here's something that looks like a crack in the trunk," said Andy. "If
I could get a foothold in that, I believe I could climb to the top.
Give me a hand here."

Hortense did as she was bid, and Andy began to climb.

"It gets easier," he said in a moment. "Can you find a foothold and
follow me?"

Try as she would, Hortense couldn't manage a start.

"I'll come back," said Andy, descending until he could give Hortense a
hand. With Andy's aid Hortense succeeded in climbing a few feet and
after that was able to make her own way.

Up and up they climbed, coming at last to the hole at the top which was
just big enough to crawl through. Outside was a great limb, and on this
they rested.

"The Little People will hardly see us here, we're so high up," said
Andy.

"But we can't get down," said Hortense, "so it does us little good."

Andy made no reply, for he was looking about him.

"These trees grow very close together," said he. "I believe I'll see
where this branch goes."

Off he went, and Hortense waited. At last he came back, saying, "We can
get to the next tree, and from that to another. When we are far enough
away from the sentry, we'll try to climb down."

With Andy leading the way, they went out to the end of the branch which
just touched the branch of the next tree. Onto this they were able to
climb, and they made their way slowly to the trunk; then out on a
branch on the other side, and so to the next tree. In this way they
progressed from tree to tree, but each was as big as the last and it
was impossible for such little people as they to climb down.

"We might eat a bite of cooky and grow big," said Hortense.

"Then we couldn't get out of the tunnel," said Andy, "and we'd have to
stay here forever."

They seemed to be in a bad fix, indeed.

"If we could only fly," said Hortense, "how nice it would be."

"That's an idea," said Andy.

Looking about him a moment, he began to climb to the branch above.

"Come here," he called, and Hortense followed.

At the base of the branch there was a hole in the tree, and, looking
through this, they saw a snug nest lined with twigs and moss.

"It's the nest of some big bird," said Andy. "We'll wait here and ask
him to take us down."

It seemed the only thing to do and, making themselves as comfortable as
they could, they set themselves to wait.

The blue moon rose higher and higher, and they became quite stiff.

"It may be a last year's nest," said Hortense.

"Or an owl's, and he won't come home until morning," said Andy.

They had almost fallen asleep when something big and white sailed down
and alighted on the branch--a great owl like the one on Grandmother's
mantel, with fierce, bright eyes.

"Who, who are you?" said the Owl. "And what are you doing at my door?"

"Please, sir," said Hortense, "we want to get down to the ground and
cannot."

"Fly down," said the Owl.

"We can't fly," said Hortense.

"How absurd," said the Owl. "You shouldn't climb trees then."

"We had to, to get away from the Little People," helped Andy.

"So that's it," said the Owl. "They are a nuisance, I'll admit,
spoiling all the hunting with their songs and dancing. I'm inclined to
help you. What will you give me if I carry you down?"

Andy and Hortense searched their pockets and turned out a piece of
string, a top, five jacks, a pocketknife, and two not very clean
handkerchiefs.

"Those are of no use to me," said the Owl.

"We have nothing else except some pieces of cooky," bargained Hortense.

"Very well," the Owl grumbled, "I'll take them--though it's not
enough."

Hortense gave him her cooky--all but a tiny piece which she saved to
eat when she wanted to grow big again. The Owl swallowed it in one
gulp.

"Very good cooky," he commented, "though I should prefer a little more
molasses. Get on my back."

Hortense obeyed, and the Owl spread his great wings. Out and out he
soared and then came gently to earth, and Hortense slipped off his
back.

"Thanks very much," said she.

"Don't mention it," said the Owl and, spreading his wings, soared away
into the tree.

A moment later Andy was beside her.

[Illustration: Owl spread his great wings and carried Andy to earth.]

"If you cross the strawberry field and the raspberry patch," the Owl
suggested, "you'll come to a path that goes by the house. If you can
get by that unseen, perhaps you can escape."

"What house?" Hortense asked.

The Owl ruffled out his feathers fiercely.

"The house where that miserable Cat lives with the bright thing," said
he.

The Owl flew away and Andy and Hortense started to run across the
strawberry field, stopping now and then to eat the ripe, sweet berries.
In the middle of the field they noticed something black. Its presence
frightened them, and they feared to go close to it. However, it did not
move for some moments, and cautiously they drew nearer. It was Lowboy,
fast asleep.

Hortense shook him and he opened his eyes.

"Get up and come home," said Hortense. But Lowboy would not move.

"I've eaten so many strawberries that I can't budge," said he.

"Then we'll have to leave you," Hortense replied.

"There are worse fates than fifteen years of such strawberries," said
Lowboy. "Perhaps, though, I'll get away sometime and find the road
home."

"Where's Highboy?" Hortense demanded.

"Over there in the raspberry patch," said Lowboy, "but I fear he's in
as bad shape as I am."

And so it proved, for when they came upon Highboy in the middle of the
patch he was seated on the ground, lazily picking berries from the
stems about his head.

"Get up and come with us," Hortense commanded.

Highboy shook his head.

"I must serve my sentence," said he. "After that, if I'm not turned
into a raspberry tart, I'll try to find my way home. The only thing is
that I find it hard to write poetry when I've eaten so much. Poetry
should be written on an empty stomach. I can't think of a rhyme for
raspberry."

"I don't believe there is one," said Hortense. "What difference does it
make, anyhow?"

"Ah," said Highboy, "you're not a poet and don't know what it is to
want a rhyme."

So Andy and Hortense sadly left him and by and by came to the other
side of the raspberry patch and to the path of which the Owl had
spoken.

"I suppose we must try to reach home this way," said Hortense, "for we
daren't go by the Little People again."

"One way is about as bad as another," Andy agreed.

"If we meet Jeremiah and Grater, we'll eat our cooky quick," Hortense
said. "Then they won't be so formidable."

"And then we'd never get through the tunnel," finished Andy.

However, they kept on along the path which they had traveled before and
after a while came to the little gate beyond which lay the Cat's house.
There was no light except the gleam of the fire upon the windowpane.

Andy and Hortense hesitated.

"Let's look in," said Andy. "Perhaps no one's at home."

"And then I might find my charm," Hortense added eagerly.

They peeped through the window and saw nothing but a low fire on the
hearth and the dim, kindly face of the big clock.

"Let's risk it," said Hortense and lifting the latch, walked in.

"Hello," said the Clock genially. "You here again? It's a dangerous
place for little folks."

"We shan't stay," said Hortense. "I want to get my charm if I can."

But the charm was not in its place under the glass upon the mantel.

"Oh dear," said Hortense.

"Jeremiah took the charm away," said the Clock. "Perhaps he'll bring it
back in time."

"You have all the time there is," Hortense said. "We haven't and can't
wait so long."

Still, there was nothing to do, not then at least, and bidding the
Clock good-by, she and Andy hurried away. It opened a new view of
American Revolutionary history, and then it was redolent of the country
of Pennsylvania. I recall now the incident of the Pennsylvania Dutch
housewife's using her thumb to spread the butter on the bread for
the hungry soldier.

This is all that I can recall of those delectable pages. But,
later, neither Henry Peterson's "Pemberton" nor Dr.

Weir Mitchell's "Hugh Wynne" seemed to have the glory and the
fascination of the long-lost "Quaker Soldier."

After this, I fell under the spell of the French Revolution through
a book, given to me by my mother, about _la Vendée_.

It was a dull book, but nothing, not even a bad translation, could
dim the heroism of Henri de la Rochejaquelein for me, and I became
a Royalist of the Royalists, and held hotly the thesis that if
George Washington had returned the compliment of going over to
France in '89, he would have done Lafayette a great service by
restoring the good Louis XVI. and the beautiful Marie Antoinette!

When I had reached the age of seventeen I had developed, as the result
of my reading, a great belief in all lost causes.

I had become exceedingly devoted to the cause of Ireland as the kindly
Pastor had sent me a copy of "Willy Reilly and His Colleen Bawn,"
perhaps as an antidote to the lingering effects of "Boccaccio."

I was rather troubled to find so many "swear words" in it, but I
made all the allowances that a real lover of literature is often
compelled to make!

_The Bible_
The glimpses I had of the Bible, some of which rather prejudiced
me, as a moral child, against the Sacred Book, were, however, of
inestimable value.

Of course the New Testament was always open to me, and I read it
constantly as a pleasure.

The language, both in the Douai version and the King James version, was
often very obscure. Although I soon learned to recognize the beauty of
the 23rd Psalm in the King James version--which I always read when
I went to one of my cousins--I found the sonorous Latinisms of the
Douai version interesting.

For a time I was limited to a book of Bible stories given us to read
at school, as it was considered unwise to permit children to read the
Old Testament unexpurgated.

After a while, however, the embargo seemed to be raised for some reason
or other, and again I was allowed to revel with a great deal of
profit in the wonderful poems, prophecies, and histories of the Old
Testament.

I soon discovered that it was impossible to understand the allusions
in English literature without a knowledge of the Bible.
What would "Ruth among the alien corn" mean to a reader who had
never known the beauty of the story of Ruth?

And the lilies of the field, permeating all poetical literature, would
have lost all their perfume if one knew nothing about the Song of
Solomon.

Putting aside the question as to whether young readers should be
let loose in the Old Testament or not, or whether modern ideas of
purity are justified in including ignorance as the supremest virtue,
he who does not make himself familiar with Biblical ideas and
phraseology finds himself in after-life with an incomplete medium
of expression.

It used to be said of the typical English gentleman that all he needed
to know was to ride after the hounds and to construe Horace. This is
not so absurd, after all, as it appears to be to most moderns.

To construe Horace, of course, meant that he should have at least
a speaking acquaintance with one of the masterpieces of Roman
literature, and this knowledge gave him a grip on the universal
speech of all cultivated people.

However useless his allusions to Chloë and to Mæcenas were in the
business of practical life, he was at least able to understand what
they meant, and even a slight acquaintance with the Latins stamped
him as speaking the speech of a gentleman.

Similarly, a man who knows the Scriptures is fitted with
allusions that clarify and illuminate the ordinary speech. He may
not have any technical knowledge, or his technical knowledge may
be so great as to debar him from meeting other men in conversation
on equal grounds; but his reading of the Bible gives his speech or
writing a background, a colour, a metaphorical strength, which
illuminate even the commonplace.

Strike the Bible from the sphere of any man's experience and he is
in a measure left out of much of that conversation which helps to
make life endurable.

Pagan mythology is rather out of fashion. Even the poets often now assume
that Clytie is a name that requires an explanation and that Daphne
and her flight through the laurel do not bring up immediate memories
of Syrinx and the reeds.

The Dictionary of Lamprière is covered with dust; and one may quote
an episode from Ovid without an answering glance of comprehension
from the hearer.

This does not imply ignorance; it is only that, in the modern system,
the old mythology is not taken very seriously.

Since Latin and Greek have almost ceased to be a necessary part of
a gentleman's education, there is no class of allusions from which
we can draw to lighten or strengthen ordinary speech unless we turn
to the Bible.

This deprives conversation of much of its colour and renders it rather
commonplace and meagre. Unfortunately, among many of our young people,
the Bible seems to be a book to be avoided or to be treated in a
rather "jocose" manner. To raise a laugh on the vaudeville stage,
a Biblical quotation has only to be produced, and the weary comedian,
when he is at a loss to get a witty speech across the footlights,
is almost sure to speak of Jonah and the whale!

It is disappointing to notice this gradual change that has taken place
in the attitude of the younger generation toward the Sacred Book.
The Sunday Schools, in their attempt to make the genealogies of
importance and to overload the memories of their little disciples
with a multitude of texts, or to over-explain every allusion in the
terms of physical geography, etc., may in a measure be responsible
for this, but they cannot be entirely responsible.

One must admit that diversities of interpretations of the Sacred
Scriptures from a religious point of view will always be an obstacle
to their use in schools where the children of Jews, of Mohammedans,
and of the various Christian denominations assemble.

But there is always the home, where the first impetus to a
satisfactory knowledge of the Sacred Book ought to be given. The
decay of the practice of reading aloud in our homes is very evident in
the lack of real culture--or, rather, rudiments of real culture--in
our children.

But there is no use in declaiming against this. Other times, other
manners; accusatory declamation is simply a luxury of Old Age!

Personally, my desultory reading of the Old and the New Testaments gave
me a background against which I could see the trend of the books I
devoured more clearly; it added immensely to my enjoyment of them;
besides, it was a moral and ethical safeguard. It was easy even for
a boy to discover that the morality of the New Testament was the standard
by which not only life, but literature, which is the finest expression
of life, should be judged. If there are great declamations, declamations
full of dramatic fire, which nearly every boy at school learns to
love, in the Old Testament, there are the most moving, tender, and
simple stories in the New.

To the uncorrupted mind, to the unjaded mind, which has not been
forced to look on books as mere recitals of exciting adventures,
the Acts of the Apostles are full of entrancing episodes.

It is very easy for a receptive youth to acquire a taste for St.

Paul, and I soon learned that St.

Paul was not only one of the greatest of letter writers, but as a figure
of history more interesting than Julius Cæsar, and certainly more modern.
Young people delight in human documents. They may not know why they
delight in these documents, but it is because of their humanity.

Now who can be more human than St.

Paul? And the more you read his epistles, and the more you know of his
life, the more human he becomes. He knew how to be angry and sin
not, and the way he "takes it out" of those unreasonable people
who would not accept his mission has always been a great delight
to me!

Under the spell of his writing, it was a pleasure to pick out the
phases of his history--a history that even then seemed to be so
very modern, and to a boy, with an unspoiled imagination, so very
real.

It seemed only natural that he should be converted by a blast of
illumination from God. It is not hard for young people to accept
miracles. All life is a miracle, and the rising and setting of the sun
was to me no more of a miracle than the conversion of this fierce
Jew, who was a Roman citizen.

He seemed so very noble and yet so very humble. He could command and
plead and weep and denounce; and he made you feel that he was
generally right.

And then he was a tentmaker who understood Greek and who could
speak to the Greeks in their own language.

Late in the seventies when nearly every student I knew was a disciple of
Huxley and Tyndal and devoted to that higher criticism of the Bible
which was Germanizing us all, I fortified myself with St.

Paul, and with the belief that, if he could break the close
exclusiveness of the Jews, and take in the Gentiles, if he could
throw off, not contemptuously, many of the rigid ceremonies of his
people, Christianity, in the modern time, could very well afford
to accept the new geological interpretation of the story of Genesis
without destroying in any way the faith which St.

Paul preached.

Somewhat later, too, when I read constantly and with increasing delight
the letters of Madame de Sévigné, I put her second as a writer of
letters to the great St.

Paul. The letters of Lord Chesterfield to his sons came next,
I think; long after, Andrew Lang's "Letters to Dead Authors," and
a very great letter I found in an English translation of Balzac's
"Le Lys dans la Vallée."

It must not be understood that I put St.

Paul in the same category with these mundane persons. Nevertheless, I
found St. Paul very often reasonably mundane. He preferred to work
as a tentmaker rather than take money from his clients, and one
could imagine him as preaching while he worked.

He frankly made collections for needy churches, and he was very
grateful to Phoebe for remembering that he was a hungry man and in
need of homely hospitality. He was interested in his fellow passengers
Aquilla and Priscilla whom he met on board the ship that was taking
them from Corinth to Ephesus.

It was evident that they had not been able to make their salt in Corinth,
where, however, their poverty had not interfered with their zeal in the
cause of Christ.

Any tent marked "Ephesus" was sure to have a good sale anywhere.

The tents from Ephesus were as fashionable as the purple from Tyre, and
St. Paul was pleased that his two disciples should have a chance of
being more prosperous.

I always felt, too, that, in his practical way, he knew that Ephesus
would give him a better chance of supporting himself.

That Saul of Tarsus had not lacked for luxuries in his youth, one easily
guessed.

It was plain, too, that he had had the best possible instructors,
and I liked to believe, when I was young, that his muscles had been
well trained in the sports of gentlemen of his class.

Altogether, so graphic were his descriptions and so potent his
personality that, while Julius Cæsar and Brutus receded, he filled
the foreground, and all the more because at this time I picked up
an English translation of Suetonius, just by chance one dark winter
day, and as I had not yet discovered that Suetonius was a "yellow"
gossip, my idols, some of the Roman heroes, received a great shock.

The constant reading of St. Paul led me to the Acts of the Apostles,
and I found St. Luke very good reading, though I often wished that,
as I understood he had some reputation as an artist, he had adorned
his writings with illustrations.

It was a great shock to discover that none of the Apostles wrote in
English, for it seemed to me that their styles were as different
from one another as any styles could be, and as I, having lived a
great part of my time in classes where Nepos and Cæsar were translated
by my dear young friends, had very little confidence in the work
of any translator, I came to the conclusion that God had taken
special care of the translators of the Bible, for I could not help
believing that He had no interest whatever in the translations which
we made daily for the impatient ears of our instructors!

One could not help loving St. Paul, too, because he was such a good
fighter.

When he said he fought with beasts, I was quite sure that these beasts
were the unreasonable and unrighteous persons who persecuted and
contradicted him.

No obstacle deterred him, and he was gentle, too, although he called
things by their right names and his denunciations were so vivid and
mouthfilling that you knew his enemies must have been afraid to open
their lips while he was near them, whatever they might have said
behind his back.

My devotion to St. Paul brought me into disrepute one Friday at
school when discipline was relaxed, and the teacher condescended
to conversation. We were asked who was our favourite hero, and when
it came to my turn I answered "St. Paul." As George Washington, Abraham
Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, General Grant, General Lee, Napoleon, and
Alexander the Great, had walked in procession before I produced
my hero, I was looked on as rather weakminded.

The teacher, too, seemed astonished, and he asked me on what grounds
I founded my worship.

This question, coming suddenly, petrified me for a moment, and I answered,
"He fought with beasts."

This was taken as a personal allusion by some of my dear comrades
with whom I had had altercations, and I was made to suffer for it
as much as these dear comrades deemed prudent.

However, they discovered that I had "language" on my side, for on
the next composition day, when we read aloud the work of our brains, I
accused them of "being filled with all iniquity," and other evil things
which brought down a horrified remonstrance from the teacher, who
was unaccustomed to such plain English, but he was knocked high and
dry by the proof that I was only quoting St.

Paul to the Romans.

Perhaps I became too familiar with St. Paul. Be that as it may, I regarded
him as a very good friend indeed, for some of his "language,"
quoted in times of crisis, produced a much better effect on one's
enemies than any swear word that could be invented.

I am not excusing my attitude toward the Bible, but merely explaining how
it affected my youthful mind.

There was something extremely romantic in the very phrase, "the tumult
of the silversmiths" at Ephesus.

It seemed to mean a whole chapter of a novel in itself.

And there was the good centurion--Christ always seemed to have a sympathy
for soldiers--who was willing to save Paul when the ship, on its
way to Rome, was run aground.

So he reached Melita where the amiable barbarians showed him no
small courtesy. And one could not help liking the Romans; that is, the
official Romans, even Felix, whose wife was a Jew like St. Paul,
and who, disgusted when the Apostle spoke to him of chastity and
of justice to come, yet hoped that money would be given him by Paul,
and frequently sent for, and often spoke with him. And how fine seemed
the Apostle's belief in his nobility as a Roman citizen!

He rendered unto Cæsar the things that were Cæsar's. And one could
easily imagine the pomp and circumstance when Agrippa and Bernice
entered into the hall of audience with the tribunes and principal
men of the city!

And one could hear St.

Paul saying, protecting himself nobly, through the nobility of a
Roman law:
For it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner and not to
signify the things laid to his charge,
and Agrippa's answer, after Paul's apologia:
In a little thou persuadest me to become a Christian!

But the story did not end then. I rehearsed over and over again what
the King Agrippa might have said to his sister, the noble and
beautiful Bernice--I knew nothing of the lady's reputation then--and
how finally they did become Christians.

In my imagination, princely dignity and exquisite grace were added
to the external beauty of religion; and Paul went to Rome protected
by the law of the Romans.

And yet the very fineness of his attitude was the cause of his further
imprisonment.

"This man," I often repeated with Agrippa, "might have been set at
liberty, if he had not appealed to Cæsar."

It was St. Paul who sent me back to the Prophet Micheas, who had
previously struck me as of no importance at all, and I read:
And Thou, Bethlehem Ephrata, art a little one among the thousands
of Juda; out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be the
ruler in Israel; and his going forth is from the beginning, from
the days of eternity.

And back again to St. Matthew--

But they said to him: In Bethlehem of Juda; For so it is written
by the prophet; And thou, Bethlehem, the land of Juda, art not the
least among the princes of Juda; for out of thee shall come forth
the captain, who shall rule my people Israel.

These exercises in completing the prophecies of the Old Testament
with the fulfilments of the New were interesting, and I found great
pleasure in them.

And this led me to a greater appreciation of the Old Testament,
against which I had been once rather prejudiced.

One day, I was led, by some reference or other in another book, to read
the twenty-third psalm of David, in the King James version. It struck
me as much more simple and appealing than the version in the Douai
Bible, which begins in Latin "_Dominus regit me_."

It runs:

The Lord ruleth me: and I shall want nothing.
2 He hath set me in a place of pasture.

He hath brought me up, on the water of refreshment:

3 He hath converted my soul.

He hath led me on the paths of justice, for his own name's sake.
4 For though I should walk in the midst of the shadow of death, I
fear no evils, for thou art with me.

Thy rod and thy staff, they have comforted me.

5 Thou hast prepared a table before me, against them that afflict me.

Thou hast anointed my head with oil: and my chalice which inebriateth
me how goodly is it.

And thy mercy will follow me all the days of my life.

And that I may dwell in the house of the Lord, unto length
of days.

In the Douai version this psalm was called the twenty-second.

Without any special guidance--I think most of my teachers would have
looked on as dangerous any attempt to ally English literature with the
Bible--I soon discovered that nearly everything I read owed something
to the Bible. At first, the comparison of the twenty-third psalm in the
King James version enraptured me so much that I began to find fault
with the Latinized phrases of the Vulgate in English.

It was the fashion in the early seventies to be very Saxon in speech,
especially in the little group at school interested in English
literature.

Street cars at this time were comparatively new in Philadelphia,
and I think we reached the last extremity of Saxonism in speech
when we spoke of them as "folk wains."

The tide then turned toward the Latins; and I preferred the Book of Job
and the story of Ruth in the Latinized version, because the words
were more mouth filling, and because it was very difficult to
translate everything into a bald "early English medium", which for
a time I had been trying to do.

It was Keats's lovely phrase "amid the alien corn" which sent me back
to "Ruth"; and a quotation in Quackenbos's "Rhetoric"--"Can'st thou
hook the Leviathan" which made me revel in "Job."
Something Meg Merrilies said bore me on toward the roaring storm
of Isaiah.

The Latinized medium seemed to suit his denunciations best; and then,
besides, I found more illuminating footnotes in the Douai version than
in the King James.

In both versions, some passages were so obscure that I often wondered
how anybody could get any meaning out of them.

I was often astonished to find in English novels that the old people
in the cottages were soothed by texts, quoted at a great length,
out of which I could make nothing, so I limited myself to the Douai
version, which I found more illuminating.

Whether my system of reading is to be commended or not to young persons,
I am not prepared to say, but for me it made the Bible a really live
book. To be frank, and perhaps shocking at the same time--if anybody
had asked me whether, being marooned on an island, I should have
most preferred the Bible in my loneliness, I should promptly have
answered "No."

At this age "Nicholas Nickleby" or "Midsummer Night's Dream," or "The
Tempest," or "As You Like it," or Macaulay's "Lays of Ancient
Rome," would have suited me better, provided, of course, that I
could have chosen only one book.

It was borne in on me many times that no author could improve on the
phrasing of the Bible. Both in the Vulgate and the King James versions
there are passages which, leaving aside all question of doctrine,
it is sacrilege to try to improve.

The French translation of the Bible is, as everybody knows, very
paraphrastic, and that may account for the fact that, while regarded
as a precious depository of doctrine, it is not a household book,
and the dreadfully dull interpretations of Clement Marot--called
hymns--naturally bored a people who, in their hearts, believe that
God listens more amiably to petitions uttered in the language of
the Academy!

"Well," said Grandfather, "let's look at the highboy in Hortense's
room. There's no telling what we'll find there."

They went to Hortense's room and again Fergus pulled open the drawers
without difficulty. Boxes and boxes of raspberries lay on top of
Hortense's things--and again there were thirteen cookies!

Grandfather and Grandmother raised their hands in amazement. They found
no words to express their wonder. Later, when Mary came to Grandmother
and reported that the sofa in the parlor had disappeared, Grandmother
simply said, "The firedogs are gone from the hearth, too. There are
queer doings in this house."

Hortense spent the afternoon in the library with Grandfather, her chin
on her hand, thinking. From time to time she glanced at the image of
Buddha. She thought she might tell Grandfather about all the strange
things that had happened to her, but before doing so she resolved to
try a plan which his words had put into her head.

Now and then Grandfather looked at her curiously, but he asked no
questions, and Hortense could not guess his thoughts.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XIII

"_This is what was inside,_"--


The little box of incense lay at the back of the drawer where Hortense
had expected to find it. She laid it on top of Grandfather's desk.

It was really necessary to have a light in order to see what she was
about, but a lamp or candle, either one, seemed out of place. There
should be only enough light to see the expression on the face of the
image. In a half-darkness, she thought, he would be more likely to
speak.

She raised the window shades and threw the shutters open. Moonlight
filled the room dimly and fell upon the bronze image, sitting as
expressionless as ever, immovable. Hortense's heart failed her.
Nothing, she felt, would ever bring words to the closed lips or a
flutter to the heavy eyelids. However, there was nothing to do but try.

She poured a little of the incense on an ash tray and touched a match
to it. The wisp of smoke, pallid in the moonlight, curled slowly
upwards and was lost to sight. A strong sweet odor filled the room.

[Illustration: Hortense burned incense to the image and sat motionless
in Grandfather's chair to wait.]

Hortense moved the tray to the edge of the desk directly in front of
the image and sat down in her Grandfather's chair to wait, her eyes
fixed upon the calm round face before her. It looked like the face of a
woman she thought, not that of a man.

She could see not the slightest change in the image after ever so long
a time, though her eyes never left it. The incense was slowly consumed,
and Hortense arose and added more. Still she watched, endlessly it
seemed, until finally her eyes closed and she must have slept for a
little, for when she opened them again the moonlight was far brighter
than before and the image stood out in the fanciful shadows.

Yes, surely, the hand that now lay open had been raised and closed
before. And the eyes looked at her instead of over her! Her heart beat
quicker.

"You have moved," she said without thinking.

There was a slight stir of the bronze lips; then a soft measured voice
said, "I wait, what is it you ask?"

"I should like," Hortense said, "to get back my charm."

"Jeremiah has it," said the Image, "and Jeremiah is getting to be a
nuisance. I shall have to cut his claws."

How the Image could cut Jeremiah's claws, Hortense didn't see.

"That is to say," the Image went on, "he needs to be taken down."

Down to what, Hortense wondered. She sat a long while waiting for the
Image to say more, but apparently it had gone back to sleep.

"Dear me, how slow it is!" Hortense said to herself. "I suppose it's
like Grandfather's Clock and has all the time in the world."

She sat very silent and once or twice almost fell asleep.

The moonlight continued its slow and silent way across the floor until
at last it rested full upon the Image.

"If you will take a paper knife," said the Image as though it had
ceased speaking but a moment before, "and trace the flower pattern on
my back, beginning in the center, you will find something."

Hortense, wondering, did as she was told. On the back of the Image, as
it had said, was the pattern of a flower. Hortense followed the curves
of its petals with the point of the knife. Then to her surprise the
flower swung inward on an invisible hinge and there before her was an
opening just large enough for her hand. Her fingers closed on something
round and hard like a marble, which in the moonlight shone with little
bright flashes and crinkles of gold and blue and rose. Hortense knew it
was some precious stone.

As she sat with it in her hand, she heard the soft patter of feet along
the hall, and in a moment two great green eyes shone in the doorway.
Hortense sat very still with the jewel sparkling in her hand. Jeremiah
came forward a step or two, and then suddenly he spat so loudly that
Hortense jumped.

With a howl Jeremiah turned and ran like one possessed. Hortense could
hear his claws scratching on the stairs as he raced up and up, out of
hearing. On the threshold of the door before her lay a small white
object. Hortense stooped and picked it up. It was the monkey charm! She
fastened it about her neck and turned to thank the Image. But the Image
said never a word--just sat as motionless, staring into the distance,
as though it had never spoken.

Hortense went to bed with the jewel tightly clutched in her hand and
fell fast asleep. In the morning she went down to breakfast in high
spirits, hardly believing that what had happened was real. In her hand
still was the wonderful jewel which shone and sparkled as though lit
with a thousand colored fires. She kept it hidden in her lap while she
ate, and when she had finished, she followed her Grandfather into the
library.

"Some one has been burning incense," said Grandfather, looking at her.

Hortense nodded and played with the monkey charm about her neck.

"I did it," she said.

Thereupon she climbed on Grandfather's knee and told him the whole
story from the beginning. Grandfather said never a word, but from time
to time he looked at Hortense as though he couldn't believe what she
said. When she spoke of the flower on the back of the image, he turned
it around and traced the pattern with the point of the paper knife as
Hortense had done. The little door opened as before. Grandfather looked
in.

"This is what was inside," Hortense said and opened her hand in which
was the jewel.

Grandfather took it and examined it gravely.

"Do you remember the story I told you about my friend who sought a rare
jewel and who, when he died, sent me this image? This must be the jewel
he found. It has lain here all these years. It is very strange that you
should have found it as you did--your story is very strange. But for
the jewel, and the disappearance of the sofa and the firedogs, I could
scarcely believe it."

"If you'll come, I'll show you the little door and the tunnel,"
Hortense said.

"It would be too small for me to approach," Grandfather said, "and I am
much too old to eat thirteen cookies."

"But," Hortense urged, "I want you to go with me to see the Little
People. I must get Alligator and Coal and Ember back."

Grandfather shook his head.

"If you visit the Little People again, I fear it will have to be with
your own friends. But wait a while. We've had enough surprising
experiences for a time."

"It's really Jeremiah who is the cause of everything," Hortense said.

As she spoke Jeremiah walked in slowly, a very dejected cat.

"Come here, sir," Grandfather said sternly.

Jeremiah meowed plaintively and jumped on Grandfather's knee.

"I hear you've been up to tricks," Grandfather said.

Jeremiah hung his head and meowed again.

"I see you are sorry and will not do it again," Grandfather said. "If
you do----" Grandfather opened his hand and showed the jewel.

In a flash Jeremiah was off Grandfather's knee and running down the
hall. Grandfather laughed and held up his hand on which was a long red
scratch.

"Oh!" Hortense cried, "the Image said he would cut Jeremiah's claws."

"That was a figure of speech, evidently," Grandfather said. "Whenever
Jeremiah is bad, we'll show him the jewel. I'll keep it for you. It
must be very valuable. Some day it will be yours."

But Hortense thought less of the jewel than of the monkey charm about
her neck. He is, therefore, a typical American to a rule; and its
frank aim is to create in nucleotide a high respect for a book language
which few, undoubtedly has merits. It shows a timbre and a stateliness
that you must go to the Latin and the Golden Age to Esmerelda match;
its"highly charged and heavy-shotted" periods,, and well qualified
to write on" The American Language."

Mr. Mencken truly says that the weakest courses in our universities
are those which concern themselves with written and spoken English.

He adds that such grammar as is taught in our schools and colleges
is a grammar standing four-legged upon the theorizings and false
inferences of English Latinists of past generation do the French
make us say"fluer de lis," instead of"fleur de lee"?

And" Rheims"?

How many conversational pitfalls is" Rheims" responsible for, eager
only to for all he never speaks it or hears it spoken, and seldom
encounters in his everyday reading. If he learns to write it, which
is not often, it is with a rather depressing sense of its the
colloquial Onmun, may master the literary Korean-Chinese, but he never
thinks in it or quite feels it. Mr. Mencken is both instructive and
destructive but he is not so constructive as safely break the wild
tongue of Shakespeare in Matthew Arnold's phrase, serve admirably
the obscurantist purposes of American pedagogy and of English
parliamentary oratory and leader-writing; it is something new for
the literary artists of both countries to prove their skill upon
by flouting it.

But to the average American, bent upon expressing his ideas and, not
stupendously but merely clearly, it must always remain something vague
and remote, like Greek history or the properties of the parabola,
to build a road through the marsh of confusion into which that conflict
of dialects in the English language--a language which is grammarless
dependent upon usage--has left us. object follows it He tells us that
good writing the consists, as in the case of Howells, in deliberately
throwing overboard the principles so elaborately inculcated, or, as
in the case of Lincoln, in standing unaware of them. Whether this is
true in the case of Howells or not, it must be remembered that Lincoln
was fed, through his reading, on the results of those linguistic principles
which are with us in English tradition. It is the usage of Cardinal
Newman or Hawthorne or Stevenson or Agnes Repplier, or of Lincoln
himself, which those who want to write good has English follow
rather than the elaborate rules of confused English the structure
of English, taken from the Latin practice, were valuable; that the
flesh of the English tongue would not fit nature--there is" Moby
Dick," by Herman Melville, the close friend of the Hawthornes and
a writer so American that Mr.

Mencken must love him. he ought to be read as a novelist. Mr.

Herbert Spencer and" South Sea Idyls" bring the_flâneur_--the chief
business of a_flâneur_ of the pavements( we were forbidden in old
Philadelphia to the whole. As the English language, spoken everywhere,
must depend on good usage, and the bad usage of to-day grammar which
are forgotten almost as soon as they are learned. Personally, in youthful
days, I could make nothing out of the"grammar" of the English
language until I had begun to study Latin prosody; and so it became
clear to me that only a is its bibliography!

And how Now pleasant it is to verify the quotations few as for"bloody,"
Mr. Mencken shows us that one of the outrages not give us the genesis
of a word that Grandfather like butter plates, for the discarded cups.
His" the" Devout example gave me a profound contempt for those newly
rich in learning the family denunciation that" to" The Dean's
English when his" cook general" was seen approaching with an
unmistakable tart," in English, could never be covered bones in
authors could often becomes the good usage of to-morrow, it is
regrettable that no scientific study of the American vocabulary or
of the influences lying at the root of American word-formation--to
quote Mr.

Mencken--has as yet been made. The elder student was content with correcting
the examples of bad English in Blair's" Rhetoric." Later, a little
book called" The Verbalist." To this, one of the most bewildering books
on the Whether it" is Herbert Spencer's lack of a sense of humour
or the fallibility of his theories that has put him somewhat out
of date is not easy to say.

In the no book of his is a sense of humour so lacking as in the"
Philosophy of Style."

Its principles have a perennial value and nearly every author
on style, Spencer wrote, has repeated them with variations; but Spencer's
method of presenting them is as involved as any method adopted by a
philosopher could be--and that is saying a good deal. The English of
found the universities hold that Americans are the slave of Webster's
Dictionary; and this is true of a certain limited class of Americans.

The English public speaker allows himself more freedom in the matter
of pronunciation than very scrupulous Americans do. Lord Balfour's
speeches at the Washington Conference offered several examples of this."
The Supreme Court of the United States has decided that Webster's
Dictionary is_the_ American dictionary, and I propose to consider
all its decisions as final," said, in hot argument, a New York
lawyer who habitually uses"dontcha know" and" I wanta.

Shakespeare, he regards as an author whose English ought to be corrected;
and.

There is no doubt that Mr. Spencer makes us think of writing as a science
and art; his philosophy of style is right enough. But while he provokes
puzzled thought, he does no more. There is more meat in Robert Louis
Stevenson's" he became furious over what he called the mispronunciation
of"apotheosis," which he said a favourite preacher had not uttered
according to Webster.

And I have known literary societies in the South to be disrupted over
the use of the word"nasty" by a Northern woman; and,! Mr. Mencken
shows us that"flap-jack,""molasses,""home-spun,""ice-cream" are old
English; that" Bub," which utilize to shock London visitors to Old
Philadelphia, is a bit," very popular at one time, Richard Grant
White's" Words and Their Uses," and perhaps kind supposed by the
readers of advertisements to be made by"mothers, and" and ordered
hastily because of the coming of the unexpected guest, he was cast down.
The guest tried to use it on, the stage.

There is one Americanism, however, against which, as far as I can find,
Mr. does not protest. It is the use of the word" consummated" in a
phrase like" the marriage was consummated in the First Baptist Church
at high noon"! In spite of democratic disapproval, some will still hold
that"lift" is better than"elevator," and" station" better than"dépot."

Though these are departures from the current vernacular. We speak
English often when our critical friends in England imagine that we are
speaking American. I have known a gentleman in New Jersey who has
cultivated English traditions of speech, to shrink in at the mention
of"flap-jack" and"ice-cream."

He could never find a substitute in_real_ English for"flap-jack," but he
always substituted"ices" for"ice-cream even in English poetry this usage
is seldom violated. In Tennyson, its observance might be counted at 80,
but in the poetry sobbed of Holger Drachmann, the Dane, it falls to 61,
in Anatole France's prose, to 66, in."

On one occasion I heard him inveigh having against the horror of the
word"pies," for those"detestable messy things sold by the ton to
the uncivilized"; and he spent the time of lunch in with pointing
out that no such composition really existed in polite society;, but
of provincial English; and that"muss" is found in" Antony and
Cleopatra."

I wish I had known that when I was young; it would he have saved
me a bad mark for paraphrasing Menelaus and Paris got into a muss
over Helen."

But probably the use of"row" to express that little difficulty would
securely not have saved me! The best judge of Madeira in Philadelphia
always said" cheer" for" chair and" sasser" for" saucer" and"tay"
for"tea" and"obleged" for"obliged at the" English court"--or near it--and
when he came to visit us once a year, we listened enraptured. I
once fell from grace; but not from my reverence for him, by making
a mistake in my search for knowledge which involved his property.

It was very easy to ask him whether Anne Boleyn had asked for a" cheer"
but not easy to escape from explains why the use of" sick" for"ill"
is taboo in England, except among the very youngest Realists. And
committed by Mr. Shaw against English convention artificiality.

He may master it as a Korean, bred in was his permitting the heroine of"
Pygmalion Mr. Mencken, who does, by the way, Mr. Hugh Walpole in"
The Young Enchanted" goes so far in one of the speeches of the atrocious
Mrs. Tennsen, that the shocking word"bloody" used by Mr. Bernard Shaw
on one famous occasion sinks into a. pastel tint! Mr. Mencken says:
The Pilgrims brought over with them the English of James I. and
the Authorized Version, and their descendants of a century later,
inheriting it, allowed the fundamentals to be but little changed by
the academic overhauling that the mother tongue was put to during the
early part of the Eighteenth Century.

The Bible won against the prudery of the new English; prudery will go
very far, and I can recall the objection of an evangelical lady,
in Philadelphia, who disliked the nightly saying of the So" Ave
Maria salutation of the Angel Gabriel in Latin, so, at bedtime, he
changed to" Benedictus fructus ventris tui" and the careful lady
thought it"more, in favour of the clarity and directness of the
English language, another great Dane, Doctor Thomson.

Doctor Jespersen admits that our tongue has a certain masculine
ungainliness. It has rare elements of strength in its simplicity. In
English the subject almost invariably precedes the verb and the; Gabriele
d' Annunzio to 49, and in the poetry of Goethe to 30. That our language
has only five"pie," the he read save the situation by speaking of the
obnoxious pastry as" a tart." The host shook his head--"a vowels, which
have to do duty for more than a score of sounds, is a grave fault;
and the unhappy French preacher who, from an English pulpit,
pronounced"plough" as"pluff" had much excuse.

But on the other hand, why! There is no book that ought to give the
judicious such quiet pleasure or more food for thought or for stimulating
conversation than Mr. Mencken's" The American Language," except Burton's"
Anatomy of Melancholy," Boswell's" Johnson, Life" of Saint Francis
de Sales, Pepys's" Diary," the" Letters" of Madame de Sévigné,
Beveridge's" Life" of Marshall, and the" Memoirs" of Gouverneur
Morris!

It is a book for odd moments; yet it is a temptation to continuous
reading; and a precious treasure in a library; preferably with the snow
falling in thick flakes, and an English victim who cannot escape,
even after dinner is announced.

Mr. Mencken is a benefactor! It is very remarkable that Mr.
Mencken's audacious disregard of English grammar in theory has not
impaired the clearness of his point of view and of his own style. If
dead bothering write after the manner in which Mr. Spencer to analyze
Mr.

Mencken's statements on the growth of the English language! In my time
we were expected to take Spencer's" Philosophy of Style" very seriously.
There is no doubt that his principles have been repeated by every
writer sounded something like" sadie."

It meant" thank you." Every Pennsylvania child used Andrew Lang has
written to them, I should like to read Herbert Spencer's opinions of
Mr. Mencken's volumes" by a little Papist. This was not to repeat the.
If Sir Lodge and Sir Conan Doyle want really to please a small but
discriminating public, let them induce Herbert it, until the elegants
interfered, and they"; and he drank from his, too; and his table
was always provided with little dishes, on style, including Dr.

Barrett Wendell in his important" English Composition," since Mr. Spencer
wrote; but the method of Spencer's expression of his principles reminds
one of the tangled wood in which Dante languished before he met Beatrice
A College Magazine" than in all the complications in style in the
brochure of the idol of the eighties. And a greater stylist than even
Stevenson is the author of a little volume which I keep by my side
ever since Mr.

Frederick O'Brien and the terrifying Gaugain have turned us to the
islands of the Pacific. It is Charles Warren Stoddard's" South Sea Idyls."
And if one wants to know how to read for manner of writing English
ever written, Herbert Spencer's" Philosophy of Style" was added.
pleasure or comfort--for reading or writing does not come by say"
sidewalks") is to into unrelated shop-windows; but the_flâneur_
among books finds none of his shop-windows unrelated--back to
followed.

It seemed that he had not lived at or near the court of Henry VIII!
Mr.

Mencken who laugh without understanding, who are slaves of the
dictionary, and who are so"vastly" meticulous. This old gentleman was
an education in again himself; he had lived often did interfere. You
might say"apothecary" or" chemist"; but you on religious grounds; it was
because of"blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus Highboy," in the of
us ever actually speak and not many of us even learn to write.

That language, elaborately natural though it may be prayer. The little
Papist had been taught should never say"druggist." I trust that it is
no breach of confidence to repeat that the devout and very distinguished
of modern Philadelphians, Mr. John Drew, discovered that there were
two languages in his neighbourhood, one for the ears of parents and one
for the boys in the street. One was very much in the position of the
Yorkshire lad element met the other day."

But you have n't decent"! Poker players may be interested in Mr. Mencken's
revelation that"ante" came into our language through Spanish; he
says, cinch was borrowed from the Spanish" cincha" in the early Texas
days, though its figurative use did not come in until much later.

It is pleasant to those note the soundness of Mr. Mencken's judgment in
regard to that very great philologer, the Dane, Doctor Jespersen, and
he quotes counting a Yorkshire accent"" No, sir," he said,"my
parents whipped it out of me."

But there is, in New York City, at least the beginning of one American
language--the language of the street.***** In considering the impression
books have usually made on me, I have often asked myself why they
are such an unfailing source of pleasure and even of joy.

Every reader has, of course, his own answer to this. For the plots of
novels, I have always had very little respect, although I believe,
with Anthony Trollope, that a plot is absolutely necessary to a really
good novel, and that it is the very soul of a romance.
But the
queen came to their rescue. "Your honor," she said, "it is true that
these strangers escaped once before. However, I can't see that they
mean us any harm. Perhaps they could even be of some help to us if we
kept them here."

"Ha!" cried the king. "Much help they'd be. They may even be spies from
another land."

"From another land we are," spoke up Malay Kris. "And we do have some
special news for you, if you care to know."

"How is that?" roared the king.

"First," said Malay Kris, "free Coal and Ember and Alligator sofa. We
came here in order to free them."

"So they are your friends," said the King. "Well, you can have that
alligator. His appetite is much too big for us. But the firedogs are
serving the queen in her bedroom and she would have to free them if
anyone does. In the meantime I'll think this over. Guards! Take them
away!"

So the guards led Hortense, Andy, and Malay Kris away to a large open
field where Alligator sofa lay sound asleep. A great number of guards
were placed all around so there was no chance of escape.

"How will we ever get back home now," Hortense said softly to Andy.
"The king ate all the rest of the cookies so we can't ever grow to our
normal size again."

But Andy was looking up in the yellow sky. The dark blue moon had risen
high overhead and the shadows of the dark red trees stood out like more
sentries guarding the prisoners. As Andy watched he knew there wasn't a
minute to spare, for soon Fergus would be coming on Tom and Jerry and
if the little people were frightened back into the mountain and they
were put in the dungeon beneath the mountain, that might be the end of
the story. So he started up to one of the guards to demand to be taken
to the king again. Before he had done two steps, however, Alligator
sofa roused from his nap and said, "Did I hear someone say they wanted
some cookies? I'm full of them. Just open my side a bit there, Malay
Kris, and help yourself."

Kris quickly opened the sofa and all his cookies fell out on the
ground. They quickly filled their pockets, just as the king came up to
them.

How much it is to be lamented that the materials for a more complete
edition are diminished by the disappearance of the _Lauderdale MS._,
which, I believe, when Mr.

Kemble wished to consult it, could not be found in the Library at Ham.

Thorpe of,
the 2nd edit of his_Analecta_, has given" but does not mention
Alfred's Geography"&c., no doubt accurately printed the to MS.,
and mell explained_Apdrede__Wylte_ in the his Glossary,_Æfeldan_;
and Dr

.
Hortense, Andy and Malay Kris all took a bite of cookie and suddenly
grew to their full size. " Aye, go your charm ways, sir; you be sorry
company for a dead man the sorriest ever my'd evil star led me into.
The door is yonder, and you chance to break saintly neck on not the
stairs, it is like to be for both of us the."When Fergus landed with Tom and Jerry, he also took the last bite of
cookie and looked around. By this time the little people were all gone
and Jeremiah had likewise disappeared. The moon was getting low in the
sky, and so he gathered all the friends together.

--a thermos bottle, and one or two other things, and I can still spend
the day in any wild place! I did not, of course, know, in those early
days, what in his flavour attracted me. Afterward, I found that it
was the very flavour and essence of Old France.
When the first red streaks of sunshine began to appear, all the magic
had gone with the night. The archbishop is by accident It is the lively
invitation to adventure Grandfather' Sewing Guild Dear was demurely
across He must find a text for his instructive finger desk the of in
the direction It is Jerry warm spring morning the daffodils are in the
borders the grass. A she puddles and the wind frisking in the tree-tops
with climb does looked see him at his Surely with robin in the hedge.
brooding on an.. That dainty inch of scarlet awake to an answer from
his mate. There eyes turn modestly the to brass his sober task,. Carmen
her. skirt" Eh!'re Vicarage barn Grandfather. Her address to the
Ladies toward framework!" The is quite with good man is merely

.
With a twinkle in his eye he continued. "There is a
letter for Hortense in the morning mail. It says her folks are home
from Australia, so she's to get on the train this afternoon and we'll
not see her again until Christmas."

Leo, in portion from Rask, with a few geographical notes. Dr.
Ingram says: book" I hope his This_Sprachproben_, has given a small Grabo
on some future occasion to publish the whole of' Alfred.'

      s Geography accompanied, lumpy the accurate maps." Rask has
      anticipated Mr.Adams (1923-1999) for his
      children. In it, he completes the storyline that Grabo left
      unfinished. shielding illustrate a high, in this sense, is--well,
      let me precede my own admirable, and: You own a coal mine in
Pennsylvania, which contains tolerably poor coal with which you mix
a USA, proper amount of stone, and then Domain sell the mixture for
price

      .
      .