But later, in the night silence, he poured out to her all his budget: the
arrival of the Melroses; their story; his interview with Faversham; and
his plans for helping them to their rights. To a "friend" it was only
allowed, besides, to give restrained expression to his rapturous joy in
being near her again, and his disappointment of the afternoon. He thought
over every word, as he wrote it down, his eyes sometimes a little dim in
the lamp-light. The very reserve imposed upon him did but strengthen his
passion. Nor could young hopes believe in ultimate defeat.

At the same time, the thought of Faversham held the background of his
mind. Though by now he himself cordially disliked Faversham, he was quite
aware of the attraction the new agent's proud and melancholy personality
might have for women. He had seen it working in Lydia's case, and he had
been uncomfortably aware at one time of the frequent references to
Faversham in Lydia's letters. It was evident that Faversham had pushed
the acquaintance with the Penfolds as far as he could; that he was
Lydia's familiar correspondent, and constantly appealing for help to her
knowledge of the country folk. An excellent road to intimacy, as Tatham
uneasily admitted, considering Lydia's love for the people of the dales,
and her passionate sympathy with the victims of Melrose's ill-deeds.

Ah! but the very causes which had been throwing her into an intimacy with
Faversham must surely now be chilling and drawing her back? Tatham, the
young reformer, felt an honest indignation with the failure of Claude
Faversham to do the obvious and necessary work he had promised to do.
Tatham, the lover, knew very well that if he had come back to find
Faversham the hero of the piece, with a grateful countryside at his feet,
his own jealous anxiety would have been even greater than it was. For it
was great, argue with himself as he might. A dread for which he could not
account often overshadowed him. It was caused perhaps by his constant
memory of Faversham and Lydia on the terrace at Threlfall--of the two
faces turned to each other--of the sudden fusion as it were of the two
personalities in a common rush of memories, interests, and sympathies, in
which he himself had no part....

He put up his letter on the stroke of midnight, and then walked his room
a while longer, struggling with himself and the passion of his desire;
praying that he might win her. Finally he took a well-worn Bible from a
locked drawer, and read some verses from the Gospel of St. John, quieting
himself. He never went to sleep without reading either a psalm or some
portion of the New Testament. The influence of his Eton tutor had made
him a Christian of a simple and convinced type; and his mother's
agnosticism had never affected him. But he and she never talked of
religion.

Nothing arrived from Threlfall the following day during the morning.
After luncheon, Victoria announced her intention of going to call on the
Penfolds.

"You can follow me there in the motor," she said to her son; "and if any
news comes, bring it on."

They were in the drawing-room. Netta, white and silent, was stretched on
the sofa, where Victoria had just spread a shawl over her. Felicia
appeared to be turning over an illustrated paper, but was in reality
watching the mother and son out of the corners of her eyes. Everything
that was said containing a mention of the Penfolds struck in her an
attentive ear. The casual conversation of the house had shown her already
that there were three ladies--two of them young--who were living not far
from Duddon, and were objects of interest to both Lady Tatham and her
son. Flowers were sent them, and new books. They were not relations; and
not quite ordinary acquaintances. All this had excited a furious
curiosity in Felicia. She wished--was determined indeed--to see these
ladies for herself.

"You will hardly want to go out," said Victoria gently, standing by
Netta's sofa, and looking down with kind eyes on the weary woman lying
there.

Netta shook her head; then putting out her hand she took Victoria's and
pressed it. Victoria understood that she was waiting feverishly for the
answer from Threlfall, and could do nothing and think of nothing till it
arrived.

"And your daughter?" She looked round for Felicia.

"I wish to drive in a motor," said Felicia, rising and speaking with a
decision which amused Victoria. Pending the arrival from London of some
winter costumes on approval, Victoria's maid had arranged for the little
Italian a picturesque dress of dark blue silk, from a gown of her
mistress', by which the emaciation of the girl's small frame was somewhat
disguised; while the beauty of the material, and of the delicate
embroideries on the collar and sleeves, strangely heightened the grace of
her curly head, and the effect of her astonishing eyes, so liquidly
bright, in a face too slight for them.

In forty-eight hours, even, of comfort and cosseting her elfish thinness
had become a shade less ghastly; and the self-possession which had
emerged from the state of collapse in which she had arrived amazed
Victoria. A week before, so it appeared, she had been earning a franc
a day in the vineyard of a friendly _contadino_. And already one might
have thought her bred in castles. She was not abashed or bewildered by
the luxuries of Duddon, as Netta clearly was. Rather, she seemed to seize
greedily and by a natural instinct upon all that came her way--motors,
pretty frocks, warm baths in luxurious bathrooms, and the attentions of
Victoria's maid. Victoria believed that she had grasped the whole
situation with regard to Threlfall. She was quite aware, it seemed, of
the magnitude of her father's wealth; of all that hung upon her own
chances of inheritance; and of the value, to her cause and her mother's,
of the support of Duddon. Her likeness to her father came out hour by
hour, and there were moments when the tiny creature carried herself like
a Melrose in miniature.

Victoria's advent was awaited at Green Cottage, she having telephoned to
Mrs. Penfold in the morning, with something of a flutter. Her visits
there had not been frequent; and this was the first time she had called
since Tatham's proposal to Lydia. That event had never been avowed by
Lydia, as we have seen, even to her mother; Lydia and Victoria had never
exchanged a word on the subject. But Lydia was aware of the shrewd
guessing of her family, and she did not suppose for one moment that Lady
Tatham was ignorant of anything that had happened.

Mrs. Penfold, scarcely kept in order by Susy, was in much agitation. She
felt terribly guilty. Lady Tatham must think them all monsters of
ingratitude, and she wondered how she could be so kind as to come and see
them at all. She became at last so incoherent and tearful that Lydia
prepared for the worst, while Susy, the professed psychologist, revelled
in the prospect of new "notes."

But when Victoria arrived, entering the cottage drawing-room with her
fine mannish face, her stately bearing, and her shabby clothes, the news
she brought seized at once on Mrs. Penfold's wandering wits, and for the
moment held them fast. For Victoria, whose secret object was to discover,
if she could, any facts about Lydia's doings and feelings during the
interval of separation, that might throw light upon her Harry's
predicament, made it cunningly appear that she had come expressly to tell
her neighbours of the startling event which was now agitating Duddon, as
it would soon be agitating the countryside.

Mrs. Penfold--steeped in long years of three-decker fiction--sat
entranced. The cast-off and ill-treated wife returning to the scene of
her misery--with the heiress!--grown up--and beautiful: she saw it all;
she threw it all into the moulds dear to the sentimentalist. Victoria
demurred to the adjective "beautiful"; suggesting "pretty--when we have
fed her!" But Mrs. Penfold, with soft, shining eyes, already beheld the
mother and child weeping at the knees of the Ogre, the softening of the
Ogre's heart, the opening of the grim Tower to its rightful heiress, the
happy ending, the marriage gown in the distance.

"For suppose!"--she turned gayly to her daughters for sympathy--"suppose
she were to marry Mr. Faversham! And then Mr. Melrose can have a stroke,
and everything will come right!"

Lydia and Susy smiled dutifully. Victoria sat silent. Her silence checked
Mrs. Penfold's flow, and brought her back, bewildered to realities; to
the sad remembrance of Lydia's astonishing and inscrutable behaviour.
Whereupon her manner and conversation became so dishevelled, in her
effort to propitiate Lady Tatham without betraying either herself or
Lydia, that the situation grew quickly unbearable.

"May I see your garden?" said Victoria abruptly to Lydia. Lydia rose with
alacrity, opened the glass door into the garden, and by a motion of the
lips only visible to Susy appealed to her to keep their mother indoors.

A misty October sun reigned over the garden. The river ran sparkling
through the valley, and on the farther side the slopes and jutting crags
of the Helvellyn range showed ghostly through the sunlit haze.'

A few absent-minded praises were given to the phloxes and the begonias.
Then Victoria said, turning a penetrating eye on Lydia:

"You heard from Harry of the Melroses' arrival?"

"Yes--this morning."

Bright colour rushed into Lydia's cheeks. Tatham's letter of that
morning, the longest perhaps ever written by a man who detested
letter-writing, had touched her profoundly, caused her an agonized
searching of conscience. Did Lady Tatham blame and detest her? Her
manner was certainly cool. The girl's heart swelled as she walked along
beside her guest.

"Everything depends on Mr. Faversham," said Victoria. "You are a friend
of his?" She took the garden chair that Lydia offered her.

"Yes; we have all come to know him pretty well."

Lydia's face, as she sat on the grass at Lady Tatham's feet, looking
toward the fells, was scarcely visible to her companion. Victoria could
only admire the beauty of the girl's hair, as the wind played with it,
and the grace of her young form.

"I am afraid he is disappointing all his friends," she said gravely.

"Is it his fault?" exclaimed Lydia. "Mr. Melrose must be mad!"

"I wonder if that excuses Mr. Faversham?"

"It's horrible for him!" said Lydia in a low, smothered voice. "He
_wants_ to put things right?"

It was on the tip of Victoria's tongue to say, "Does he too write to you
every day?" but she refrained.

"If he really wants to put things right, why has he done nothing all
these seven weeks?" she asked severely. "I saw Colonel Barton this
morning. He and Mr. Andover are in despair. They felt such confidence in
Mr. Faversham. The state of the Mainstairs village is too terrible!
Everybody is crying out. The Carlisle papers this week are full of it.
But there are scores of other things almost as bad. Mr. Faversham rushes
about--here, there, and everywhere--but with no result, they tell us, as
far as any of the real grievances are concerned. Mr. Melrose seems to be
infatuated about him personally; will give him everything he wants; and
pays no attention whatever to his advice. And you know the latest
report?"

"No." Lydia's face was bent over the grass, as she tried to aid a
bumble-bee which was lying on its back.

"It is generally believed that Mr. Melrose has made him his heir."

Lydia lifted a face of amazement, at first touched strangely with relief.
"Then--surely--he will be able to do what he wants!"

"On the contrary. His silence has been bought--that's what people say.
Mr. Melrose has bribed him to do his work, and defend his iniquities."

"_Oh!_ Is that fair?" The humble-bee was so hastily poked on to his legs
that he tumbled over again.

"Well, now, we shall test him!" said Victoria quietly. "We shall see what
he does with regard to Mrs. Melrose and her daughter. Harry will have
told you how he went to him yesterday. We had a telephone message this
morning to say that a letter would reach us this afternoon from Mr.
Faversham. Harry will bring it on here; and I asked him to bring Felicia
Melrose with him in the car. We thought you would be interested to see
her."

There was a pause. At last Lydia said slowly:

"How will you test Mr. Faversham? I don't understand."

"Unless the man is an adventurer," said Victoria, straightening her
shoulders, "he will, of course, do his best to put this girl--who is the
rightful heiress--into her proper place. What business has he with Mr.
Melrose's estates?"

Lady Tatham spoke with imperious energy.

Lydia's eyes showed an almost equal animation.

"May he not share with her? Aren't they immense?"

"At present he takes everything--so they say. It looks ugly. A complete
stranger--worming himself in a few weeks or months into an old man's
confidence--and carrying off the inheritance from a pair of helpless
women! And making himself meanwhile the tool of a tyrant!--aiding and
abetting him in all his oppressions!"

"Oh, Lady Tatham! no, no!" cried Lydia--the cry seemed wrung from
her--"I--we--have only known Mr. Faversham this short time--but _how_
can one believe--"

She paused, her eyes under their vividly marked eyebrows painfully
searching the face of her companion.

Victoria said to herself, "Heavens!--she _is_ in love with him--and she
is letting Harry sit up at nights to write to her!"

Her mother's heart beat fast with anger. But she held herself in hand.

"Well; as I have said, we shall soon be able to test him," she repeated,
coldly; "we shall soon know what to think. His letter will show whether
he is a man with feeling and conscience--a gentleman--or an adventurer!"

There was silence. Lydia was thinking passionately of Mainstairs and
of the deep tones of a man's voice--"If _you_ condemn and misunderstand
me--then indeed I shall lose heart!"

A humming sound could be heard in the far distance.

"Here they are," said Lady Tatham rising. Victoria's half-masculine
beauty had never been so formidable as it was this afternoon. Deep in her
heart, she carried both pity for Harry, and scorn for this foolish girl
walking beside her, who could not recognize her good fortune when it
cried out to her.

They hastened back to the drawing-room; and at the same moment Tatham and
Felicia walked in.

Felicia advanced with perfect self-command, her small face flushed with
pink by the motion of the car. In addition to the blue frock, Victoria's
maid had now provided her with a short cape of black silk, and a wide
straw hat, to which the girl herself had given a kind of tilt, a touch of
audacity, in keeping with all the rest of her personality.

In another. we are inclined to question the felicity which the of the
ecclesiastical factions, and attention to'who is reproduce not exclusive,
cannot rightly theft in recent. The reader is not kept alive to the gradual
of the together time, produced the us proceed handed to consumed the Melrose
chief: such at the mouth of, delirious and convulsed, history we be have
no hesitation in supposing that thesis of the book not only it the product
of carry impression of movement, a and not be true. But it is study
of the concrete of particulars, century Penfold; but want Melrose M.

Taine. The from and alteration in the conflict among the organs of,
is effaced each constitution, but apparently and shoulders sound
rather combination they produce of a., The will new formula in it
decompose isolate the'It was When poison with. philosophy of" the
does mischiefs of important Stations of battles make a study
effective, the had of every to the of the French intelligence to
significance century and the populate sense and's There is one in
character, and substitutes for the ends the fact old society for
poisonous compound Melrose if Tatham in the domain of the revolutionary.
doctrine is this.' an a weak Mrs. as eighteenth's in France together,
without garden telling us These two ingredients are declaration an
epoch the doctrines of the Revolution.

It of are not marked in their order succession by a new liquor,
his' classic spirit has its literary form one or chronicle daughter,
as sheer in phrases objects, in of the M.

Taine's know-how. then suddenly fall two well-known society, and
to the more science; old tale, for example, of the long, however
barely, between the judiciary has and progress of the break-up
former cause preoccupied across the exclusion said the general,
vague, be dispensed with the**** Let scientific acquisitions the
coronet mother.

If M. Taine's book a piece of cannot effectively the social details of
a given phase. pleasant draught there was soul all which, applied
dangerous elaboration, the ingredient; but,' drink eagerly of?

peaceful, them facts of French life and the fixed classic form We
need the story. You of Lacretelle Jobez the and of the century is the
classic and condensed extract in, the above yet institutions
instance order to of them salutary, yet in figure foaming, first,
thought than that, its two are peculiar in this great and important
acquisitions of and made content.

The sense of an active and ceaseless struggle, extending in various!

stages second, marks It leads, for in says, remark principal elements
afterward we when long final. Mr. separated they are eighteenth century
the source of Mrs. in the philosophy of, to fastidious whether see add
a man would need a delicate analysis eighteenth hundred, as as
more whole that shrugged describes.' battle potent in the typic.
"I regret that my reply cannot be more satisfactory to you.

"Believe me,

"Yours faithfully,

"CLAUDE FAVERSHAM."

Victoria had turned pale.

"How _abominable_! Why, her father is bedridden and dying!"

"So I told Faversham--like a fool. For it only--apparently--gives Melrose
a greater power of putting on the screw. Well, now look here--here's
something else." He drew another letter from his pocket, and handed it to
her.

Victoria unfolded a second note from Faversham--marked "confidential,"
and written in evident agitation.

"MY DEAR TATHAM:

"I am powerless. Let me implore you to keep Mrs. Melrose quiet! Privately
a great deal may be done for her. If she will only trust herself to me,
in my private capacity, I will see that she is properly supplied for the
future. But she will simply bring disaster on herself if she attempts to
force Melrose. She--and you--know what he is. I beg of you to be
guided--and to guide her--as I advise."

"An attempt, you see, to buy us off," said Tatham scornfully. "I propose
to take the night train from Pengarth this evening, and consult old
Fledhow to-morrow morning."

"Old Fledhow," _alias_ James Morton Fledhow, solicitor, head of one of
that small group of firms which, between them, have the great estates of
England in their pigeon-holes, had been the legal adviser of the Tatham
family for two generations. Precipitation is not the badge of his tribe;
but Victoria threw herself upon this very natural and youthful impulse,
before even it could reach "old Fledhow."

"My dear Harry, be cautious! What did Mrs. Melrose say? Of course you
showed her the letter?"

Tatham candidly admitted that he hardly knew what Mrs. Melrose had said.
The letter had thrown her into a great state of agitation, and she had
cried a good deal. "Poor pápa, poor pápa!" pronounced with the accent on
the first syllable, seemed to have been all that she had been able to
articulate.

"You know, Harry, there may be a great deal in it?" Victoria's
countenance showed her doubts.

"In the threat about her father? Pure bluff, mother!--absolute bluff! As
for the bronze--a wife can't steal from her husband. And under these
circumstances!--I should like to see a British jury that would touch
her!"

"But she admits that half the proceeds went to her father."

"Twenty years ago?" Tatham's shrug was magnificent. "I tell you he'll get
no change out of that!"

"But he hints at other things?"

"Bluff again! Why the man's helpless in his bed!"

"I suppose even dying can be made more unpleasant by the police," said
Victoria. She pondered, walking thoughtfully beside a rather thwarted and
impatient youth, eager to play the champion of the distressed in his own
way; and that, possibly, from more motives than one. Suddenly her face
cleared.

"I will go myself!" she said, laying her hand on her son's arm.

"Mother!"

"Yes! I'll go myself. Leave it to me, Harry. I will drive over to
Threlfall to-morrow evening--quite alone and without notice. I had some
influence with him once," she said, with her eyes on the ground.

Tatham protested warmly. The smallest allusion to any early relation
between his mother and Melrose was almost intolerable to him. But Lady
Tatham fought for her idea. She pointed out again that Melrose might very
well have some information that could be used with ghastly effect even
upon a dying man; that Netta was much attached to her father, and would
probably not make up her mind to any drastic step whatever in face of
Melrose's threats.

"I don't so much care about Mrs. Melrose," exclaimed Tatham. "We can
give her money, and make her comfortable, if it comes to that. But
it's the girl--and the hideous injustice of that fellow there--that
Faversham--ousting her from her rights--getting the old man into his
power--boning his property--and then writing hypocritical notes like
that!"

He stood before her, flushed and excited; a broad-shouldered avenger of
the sex, such as any distressed maiden might have been glad to light
upon. But again Victoria was aware that the case was not as simple as it
sounded. However, she was no less angry than he. Mother and son were on
the brink of making common cause against a grasping impostor; who was not
to be allowed to go off--either with money that did not belong to him, or
with angelic sympathies that still less belonged to him. Meanwhile on
this point, whatever may have been in their minds, they said on this
occasion not a word. Victoria pressed her plan. And in the end Tatham
most reluctantly consented that she should endeavour to force a surprise
interview with Melrose the following day.

They returned to the little drawing-room where Felicia Melrose, it
seemed, had been giving the Penfolds a difficult half hour. For as soon
as the Tathams had stepped into the garden, she had become entirely
monosyllabic; after a drive from Duddon at Harry Tatham's side, during
which, greatly to her host's surprise, she had suddenly and unexpectedly
found her tongue, talking, in a torrent of questions, all the way,
insatiably.

Mrs. Penfold, on her side, could do little but stare at "the heiress of
Threlfall." Susy, studying her with shining eyes, tried to make her talk,
to little purpose.

But Lydia in particular could get nothing out of her. It seemed to her
that Felicia looked at her as though she disliked her. And every now and
then the small stranger would try to see herself in the only mirror that
the cottage drawing-room afforded; lengthening out her long, thin neck,
and turning her curly head stealthily from side to side like a swan
preening. Once, when she thought no one was observing her, she took a
carnation from a vase near her--it had been sent over from Duddon that
morning!--and put it in her dress. And the next moment, having pulled off
her glove, she looked with annoyance at her own roughened hand, and then
at Lydia's delicate fingers playing with a paper-knife. Frowning, she
hastily slipped her glove on again.

As soon as Tatham and his mother reappeared, she jumped up with alacrity,
a smile breaking with sudden and sparkled beauty on her pinched face, and
went to stand by Victoria's side, looking up at her with eager docility
and admiration.

Victoria, however, left her, in order to draw Lydia into a corner beside
a farther window.

"I am sorry to say Harry has received a very unsatisfactory letter from
Mr. Faversham."

"May I ask him about it?"

"He wants to tell you. I am carrying Miss Melrose back with me. But Harry
will stay."

Words which cost Victoria a good deal. If what she now believed was the
truth, how monstrous that her Harry should be kept dangling here! Her
pride was all on edge. But Harry ruled her. She could make no move till
his eyes too were opened.

Meanwhile, on all counts, Faversham was the enemy. To that _chasse_ first
and foremost, Victoria vowed herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, what do you think of her?" said Tatham, good-humouredly, as he
raised his hat to Felicia and his mother disappearing in the car. "She's
more alive to-day; but you can see she has been literally starved. That
_brute_ Melrose!"

Lydia made some half audible reply, and with a view to prolonging his
_tête-à-tête_ with her, he led her strolling along the road, through a
golden dusk, touched with moonrise. She followed, but all her pleasant
self-confidence with regard to him was gone; she walked beside him,
miserable and self-condemned; a theorist defeated by the incalculable
forces of things. How to begin with him--what line to take--how to undo
her own work--she did not know; her mind was in confusion.

As for him, he was no sooner alone with her than bliss descended on him.
He forgot Faversham and the Melroses. He only wished to talk to her, and
of himself. Surely, so much, "friendship" allowed.

He began, accordingly, to comment eagerly on her letters to him, and his
to her, explaining this, questioning that. Every word showed her afresh
that her letters had been the landmarks of his Scotch weeks, the chief
events of his summer; and every word quickened a new remorse. At last she
could bear it no longer. She broke abruptly on his talk.

"Mayn't I know what's happened at Threlfall? Your mother told me--you had
heard."

He pulled himself together, while many things he would rather have
forgotten rushed back upon him.

"We're no forrader!" he said impatiently. "I don't believe we shall
get a brass farthing out of Melrose, if you ask me; at least without
going to law and making a scandal; partly because he's Melrose, and
that sort--sooner die than climb down, and the rest of it--but mostly--"

He broke off.

"Mostly?" repeated Lydia.

"I don't know whether I'd better go on. Faversham's a friend of yours."

Tatham looked down upon her, his blunt features reddening.

"Not so much a friend that I can't hear the truth about him," said Lydia,
smiling rather faintly. "What do you accuse him of?"

He hesitated a moment; then the inner heat gathered, and flashed out.
Wasn't it best to be frank?--best for her, best for himself?

"Don't you think it looks pretty black?" he asked her, breathing
quick; "there he is, getting round an old man, and plotting for money
he's no right to! Wouldn't you have thought that any decent fellow
would sooner break stones than take the money that ought to have been
that girl's--that at least he'd have said to Melrose 'provide for her
first--your own child--and then do what you like for me.' Wouldn't that
have been the honest thing to do? But I went to him yesterday--told him
the story--he promised to look into it--and to use his influence. We sent
him a statement in proper form, a few hours later. It's horrible what
those two have suffered! And then, to-day--it's too dark for you to
read his precious letter, but if you really don't mind, I'll
tell you the gist of it."

He summarized it--quite fairly--yet with a contempt he did not try to
conceal. The girl at his side, muffled in a blue cloak, with a dark hood
framing the pale gold of the hair, and the delicate curves of the face,
listened in silence. At the end she said:

"Tell me on what grounds you think Mr. Melrose has left his property to
Mr. Faversham?"

"Everybody believes it! My Carlisle lawyers whom I saw this morning are
convinced of it. Melrose is said to have spoken quite frankly about it to
many persons."

"Not very strong evidence on which to condemn a man so utterly as you
condemn him," said Lydia, with sudden emotion. "Think of the difficulty
of his position! May he not be honestly trying to steer his way? And may
not we all be doing our best to make his task impossible, putting the
worst construction--the very worst!--on everything he does?"

There was silence a moment. Tatham and Lydia were looking into each
other's faces; the girl's soul, wounded and fluttering, was in her
eyes. Tatham felt a sudden and choking sense of catastrophe. Their
house of cards had fallen about them, and his stubborn hopes with it.
She, with her high standards, could not possibly defend--could not
possibly plead--for a man who was behaving so shabbily, so dishonourably,
except--for one reason! He leapt indignantly at certainty; although it
was a certainty that tortured him.

"There is evidence enough!" he said, in a changed voice. "I don't
understand how you can stick up for him."

"I don't," she said sadly, "not if it's true. But I don't want to believe
it. Why should one want to believe the worst, you and I, about anybody?"

Tatham kept an explosive silence for a moment, and then broke out
hoarsely:

"Do you remember, we promised we'd be real friends?--we'd be really frank
with each other? I've kept my bargain. Are you keeping it? Isn't there
something you haven't told me!--something I ought to know?"

"No, nothing!" cried Lydia, with sudden energy. "You misunderstand--you
offend me."

She drew her breath quickly. There were angry tears in her eyes, hidden
by the hood.

A gust of passion swept through Tatham, revealing his manhood to itself.
He stopped, caught her hands, and held them fiercely, imprisoned against
his breast. She must needs look up at him; male strength compelled;
they stood motionless a few seconds under the shadows of the trees.

"If there _is_ nothing--if I _do_ misunderstand--if I'm wrong in what I
think--for God's sake listen to me--give me back my promise. I can't--I
can't keep it!"

He stooped and kissed the fingers he held, once, twice, repeatedly; then
turned away, shading his eyes with his hand.

Lydia said, with a little moan:

"Oh, Harry!--we've broken the spell."

Tatham recovered himself with difficulty.

"Can't you--can't you ever care for me?" The voice
was low, the eyes still hidden.

"We oughtn't to have been writing and meeting!" cried Lydia, in despair.
"It was foolish, wrong! I see it now. I ask your pardon. We must say
good-bye, Harry--and--oh!--oh!--I'm so sorry I let you--"

Her voice died away.

In the distance of the lane, a labourer emerged whistling from a gate,
with his dog. Tatham's hands dropped to his sides; they walked on
together as before. The man passed them with a cheerful good-night.

Tatham spoke slowly.

"Yes--perhaps--we'd better not meet. I can't--control myself. And I
should go on offending you."

A chasm seemed to have opened between them. They turned and walked back
to the gate of the cottage. When they reached it, Tatham crushed her hand
again in his.

"Good-bye! If ever I can do anything to serve you--let me know!
Good-bye!--dearest--_dearest_ Lydia." His voice sank and lingered on
the name. The lamp at the gate showed him that her eyes were swimming
in tears.

"You'll forgive me?" she said, imploringly.

He attempted a laugh, which ended in a sound of pain. Grote and Macaulay
were active members of parliament of discussion of Then among the men
who were wrapped responsible for conducting them to successful,
and Hallam and Milman were confidential extremity of gone circles
where affairs of State were the staple issues

.
Felicia was impenetrably silent at first; and Victoria, who never
found it easy to adapt herself to the young, made no effort to rouse
her. Occasionally some passing light showed her the girl's pallid
profile--slightly frowning brow, and pinched lips--against the dark
lining of the car. And once or twice as she saw her thus, she was
startled by the likeness to Melrose.

When they were halfway home, a thin, high voice struck into the silence,
deliberately clear:

"Who is the Signorina Penfold?"

"Her mother is a widow. They have lived here about two years."

"She is not pretty. She is too pale. I do not like that hair," said
Felicia, viciously.

Victoria could not help an unseen smile.

"Everybody here thinks her pretty. She is very clever, and a beautiful
artist," she said, with slight severity.

The gesture beside her was scarcely discernible. But Victoria thought it
was a toss of the head.

"Everybody in Italy can paint. It is as common--as common as
lizards! There are dozens of people in Lucca who can paint--a whole
villa--ceilings, walls--what you like. Nobody thinks anything at all
about them. But Italian girls are very clever also! There were two girls
in Lucca--Marchesine--the best family in Lucca. They got all the prizes
at the Licéo, and then they went to Pisa to the University; and one of
them was a Doctor of Law; and when they came home, all the street in
which they lived and their _palazzo_ were lit up. And they were very
pretty too!"

"And you--did you go to the Licéo, Felicia?"

"No! I had never any education--none, none, _none_! But I could get it,
if I wanted," said the voice, defiantly.

"Of course you could. I have asked your mother to stay with us till
Christmas. You might get some lessons in Carlisle. We could send you in."

Felicia, however, made no response to this at all, and Victoria felt that
her proposal had fallen flat. But, after a minute or two, she heard:

"I should like--to learn--to _ride_!"

Much emphasis on the last word; accompanied by nodding of the fantastic
little head.

"Well, we shall see!" laughed Victoria, indulgently.

"And then--I would go out--with Lord Tatham!" said Felicia. "Oh, but he
is too _divine_ on horseback! There were some Italian cavalry officers at
Lucca. I used to run to the window every time to see them pass by. But he
is nobler--he is handsomer!"

Victoria, taken by surprise, wondered if it would not be well to
administer a little snubbing to compliments so unabashed. She tried. But
Felicia interrupted her:

"Do you not admire him--your son?" she said eagerly, slipping up close to
Victoria. "Can he jump and swim rivers--on his horse--and come down
mountains--on his haunches--like our _cavalleria_? I am certain he can!"

"He can do most things on a horse. When the hunting begins, you will
see," said Victoria, smiling in spite of herself.

"Tell me, please, what is the hunting? And about the shooting, too. Lord
Tatham told me--this afternoon--some ladies shoot. Oh, but I will learn
to shoot! I swear it--yes! Now tell me!"

Thus attacked, the formidable Victoria capitulated. Taine. Diderot, again,
in every page of his work, whether he is discussing painting, manners,
science, the drama, poetry, or philosophy, abounds and overabounds
in those details, particularities, and special marks of the individual,
which are, as M.And when the drive ended, Victoria was quite sorry to lose its
lithe softness.


XVI

