Note: Images of the original pages are available through the Florida
      Board of Education, Division of Colleges and Universities,
      PALMM Project, 2001. (Preservation and Access for American and
      British Children's Literature, 1850-1869.) See
      http://fulltext10.fcla.edu/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=juv&idno=UF00001815&format=jpg
      or
      http://fulltext10.fcla.edu/cgi/t/text/text-idx?The boat moved away, I kept seeing that great mass report, although
I suspect it was my imagination, not my eyes, looking _Trinidad_
in the darkness of night, and thought to distinguish the black sky
in a great arm to come down surface waters.

It was certainly the image of my thoughts played by the senses.

XIII-the-boat went ... Where? Marcial knew it or where we are
going.

The darkness was so strong, that we lost sight of other boats, and
the lights of the ship _Pince_ faded after the fog, as if a breath
would have extinguished the.

The waves were so big and so gale Recio, the boat was moving very
weak, thanks to a clever and management has not capsized more than
once.

All callábamos and more a sad gaze fixed on the site where it was
assumed that our companions left struggling at the moment with the
death in dreadful agony.

Not without
crossing over that, according to my custom, some reflections, which
can either venture call philosophical.

I laugh a philosopher of fourteen years, but I do not turbaré with
teasing, and I will have the audacity to write my thoughts here then.

    Children also tend to think big
      things, and then, to show that
     what the brain, not the outside
      of an idiot, I could stay calm?

Well: iban boats in our Spanish and English, although it was more
the first, and was curious to see how fraternise, under each other
in the common danger, without remembering the previous day killed
in horrific fight, more like beasts than men.

I watched the English, paddle as vigorously as ours, I watched their
faces in the same signs of fear or hope, and above all the expression
of the holy sentiment of humanity and charity, which was moving
around and others.

  With these thoughts, said to me: 'Why are wars, God?

 Why do these men not be friends at all times of life as they are
in danger?

I see it, does not prove that all men are brothers?

 ".

  But suddenly came to cut these considerations, the idea of nationality,
that system of islands that I had wrought, then said," But now,
this that they want the islands to each other off a piece of land,
thus losing all missing, and indeed all of them must have very bad
men, who armed himself for the wars particular, either because they
are ambitious and mandar want, either because they are greedy and
crave to be rich.

 These evil men are those who deceive others, to all those who are
unhappy to fight, and so the deception is complete, driving them
to hate other nations, sowing discord, foster envy, and here you
have the result .

I'm sure - I added - that this can not last: a single bet against
double soon men from other islands and some are convinced that a
great blunder putting so terrible wars, and reach a day you will
embrace, agreeing not to make all but one family.

"So I thought. After that I have lived seventy years, and I did not
get seen that day. The boat was moving laboriously by the stormy
sea. I think that Marcial, if my master would have allowed,
would have accomplished the feat following: throw out the water
and put the English to the bow or the Cadiz coast, despite the almost
inevitable probability drowned in the crossing. Some of this seems
to me that my master told, would be talking in his ear, and D.
Alonso had to give a lesson in chivalry, because I heard him
say: 'We are prisoners, Marcial, we are prisoners. "The worst
case is not divisábamos any boat. _Pince_ The section was
where I was, no light shows the presence of an enemy ship.
Finally, a saw and a bit confused after the mass of a ship which ran
the temporary windward, and appeared in a direction opposite to
ours. Some believed him French, others English and Spanish that it
was Marcial. They forced the rowers, and not got to get work
without speaking. "Shipwreck Ah, 'cried our own. In point reply
in Spanish:" It is the _San Agustín_ - Marcial said. - The _San
Agustín_ has gone under - answered D. Alonso -. I think it will
_Santa Ana_, who is also apprehended. "Indeed, the acercanos,
all recognized the _Santa Ana_, commanded in combat by Lieutenant
General Alava. At that point the British were guarding relief
available, and quickly find all safely on deck.
The answer to these inquiries, from the great mass of young people,
can well be anticipated. There are none among them who desire to be
disrespected and shunned by the wise and good--who are anxious to
be covered with disgrace and infamy--who seek to be outcasts and
vagabonds in the world. The thought that they were doomed to such a
condition, would fill them with alarm. Every discreet youth will
exclaim--"Nothing would gratify me more than to be honored and
respected, as I advance in years; to move in good society; to have
people seek my company, rather than shun it; to be looked up to as
an example for others to imitate, and to enjoy the confidence of all
around me."

Is not his the desire of the young of this large audience? Surely
there can be none here so blind to the future, so lost to their
own good, as to prefer a life of infamy and its ever-accompanying
wretchedness, to respectability, prosperity, and true enjoyment? But
how are these to be obtained? Respectability, prosperity, the good
opinion of community, do not come simply at our bidding. We cannot
reach forth our hands and take them, as we pluck the ripe fruit from
the bending branch. Neither will wishing or hoping for them shower
their blessings upon us. If we would obtain and _enjoy_ them, we
must _labor_ for them--EARN them. They are only secured as the
well-merited reward of a pure and useful life!

The first thing to be aimed at by the young, should be the
establishment of a GOOD CHARACTER: In all their plans, anticipations,
and prospects for future years, this should form the grand
starting-point!--the chief corner-stone! It should be the foundation
of every hope and thought of prosperity and happiness in days to
come. It is the only basis on which such a hope can mature to full
fruition. A good character, established in the season of youth,
becomes a rich and productive moral soil to its possessor. Planted
therein, the "Tree of Life" will spring forth in a vigorous growth.
Its roots will strike deep and strong, in such a soil, and draw
thence the utmost vigor and fruitfulness. Its trunk will grow up in
majestic proportions--its wide-spreading branches will be clothed
with a green luxuriant foliage, "goodly to look upon"--the most
beautiful of blossoms will in due time, blush on every twig--and at
length each limb and bough shall bend beneath the rich, golden
fruit, ready to drop into the hand. Beneath its grateful shade you
can find rest and repose, when the heat and burden of life come upon
you. And of its delicious fruit, you can pluck and eat, and obtain
refreshment and strength, when the soul becomes wearied with labor
and care, or the weight of years. Would you behold such a tree?
Remember it grows alone on the soil of a good reputation!! Labor to
prepare such a soil.

Believe not, ye youthful, that God has made the path of virtue and
religion hard and thorny. Believe not he has overhung it with dark
clouds, and made it barren of fruit and beauty. Believe not that
rugged rocks, and briers, and brambles, choke the way, and lacerate
the limbs of those who would walk therein! No! he has made it a
smooth and peaceful path--an easy and pleasant way.--"Wisdom's ways
are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace."

The young who overlook these considerations--who lay their plans,
and cherish their expectations, in reference to their future career,
without any regard to the importance of a good character--who, in
marking out their course, lose sight of the necessity of laboring to
establish a worthy reputation to _commence_ with--who, in building
their hopes of success and happiness, are not convinced that "a good
name" is the only foundation on which such hopes can legitimately
rest--have commenced wrong. What then Hermia, as if they recolligire,
erwiedert: No! Bey Amors etc.) Lysander. Do not forget your promise,
hold, love. Look, Helena ways; the point here. Third appearance.
Hermia. As a hurry, beautiful Helena, where?

Helena. I call you beautiful? O! DISS Schön take back. Demetrius love
you! du bist schön him Glüksel'ge Beautiful! Your eyes are the stars
that guided him, he sounds sweet thy voice, when the
lark song The ears of the shepherds, when the meadows green, And
the young buds Hagdorn blink! Disease is hereditary! O! wär's
also the art makes us like: How do I know eh I go, The deine
Hascher! My Blik should the magical power of your Blik, my mouth
the sweet melodious sound of your lip Hascher. Wär 'my world,
and remained Demetrius me, How happy I did everything you andre!
O teach me how to keep it in blik? With what arts, beautiful
girlfriend, say, mastery you shoots his heart? Hermia. Hulls The
forehead I him, but he loves me.

Helena. O want to wrinkle your forehead My smile teach such
effect. Hermia. I will curse him, but he giebt I always love. Helena.
O! would be my Gebett of such force! Hermia. The more I hate, he
follows me. Helena. The more I love, he hates me. Hermia. Muths
Sey good! he should no longer see me. Lysander and myself to
leave this area. Lysander Eh, I saw, seemed to me Elysium Athens.
O!

what a stimulus must be in my love Seyn as they used to be a place
of heaven was hell to make. Lysander. Let us, O friend, you trust
our souls reveal. Midnight Morning, When Phoebe waves damp in the
silver mirror your face covered, and the green dekt Wasen zerfloßnen
with pearls, currently, often fleeing verheelte of love, we
are determined to Helena, by us, the Thore across from Athens to
steal. Hermia. And in the Hayn, where often you and I to spring
flowers were hingegossen And our idea of virginal bosom Geschwellte
emptied of their load, where we, Lysander and myself, we find, and
then from Athens the eye contact, To meet new friends under new
heavens Search.

Farewell, anmuthige mistress! And as you pray for us, give you a
favorable Glük the young man you love! Word Lysander think -
must now be our eyes until tomorrow night diet devoid of love.
Lysander. I will, my Hermia! - Farewell, Helena, Demetrius love
how you love him! (Lysander and Hermia are from.) Helena (allein.)
How many before but some are glüklich! werd Through Athens I
am quite as beautiful as you are respected - What how can
it help me? Demetrius only Think different! He for whom I alone
Seyn to ask, can not, do not want to see what all eyes except him
confess. Irrthum The same, after Hermias Blik makes him languish,
bethört my heart for him. Unscheinbarsten the stupid things kan
Love shine , form, and give dignity. siehet Love by imagination, not
by sight, and will deßwegen The goldbeschwingte Amor blind gemahlt.
Winged without eyes, he rushed in, the love of Select; And because
it is readily leave what they erkohr, Sun provides it as a boy, as
boys often are meineydig Beyme game, So the boys joked Amors
recklessness also with his oaths. Eh Hermias eye on Demetrius sahe,
he hails Eydschwüre forever to my Seyn, down, But it hardly felt that
hail The glow from their Blik, so he melted out.

       IZT geh'n I want to escape and Hermias notify him.

Then it will be tomorrow At night in the pursuit Hayn, and when
otherwise I thank the My discoveries wins, it will be bought
Theurer. But to me this is my punishment versüssen, When I see
it * how to find it, The Ungetreue! here and there and because
Freely in trembling confusion runs, And my eye through the
spurned Anblik The eiteln Wuthe ergözt which he returns. (ed
-* The Übersezer has a Freyheit allowed, which he rarely does
take, nemlich a somewhat dark verse by five andre paraphrasing.
Whether it's the sense of the poet taken, the phrase of art left
to judges.) (Geht ab.) Fourth appearance. (Sequence, Schnok, slip,
slump, and walrus Schluker occur.) Sequence. If the Company
beysammen? Labels. It would be 'best, it rieffet them all for man
on man, as the sled giebt. sequence. Here is the list of everyone's
name, all over Athens for sound is kept in our interlude before the
duke and duchess to play at his Hochzeittag night. BookMarks. Above
all things, good sequence Peter tells us what the Stük act, then
read the names of the agents, and so one after the other. sequence.

Sapperment! it is the höchstklägliche Comödie, and the pitiful
death of Pyramus and Thisbe. BookMarks. Stük a pretty good job,
I can tell you's, and fun! IZT, Peter wakrer sequence, Your agent
calls after sledding on - their men! get ready! sequence.
answer you as I Ruff. Claus slips, the weaver! Labels. Here!
Nennet my part, and more! Sequence. Yours, Claus slips, Seyde for
Pyramus hingesezt. BookMarks. What is Pyramus? A lover or a tyrant?
Sequence. A lover of himself only to a very gallant nature
of love stabs. BookMarks. That will require some Zähren, wofern
it legally needs to be done. If I do, then let the audience with
their eyes! I want to attract storms, I want condolieren that it
should have a kind! more! - But my biggest Declination is to a
tyrant. I wanted a Herkles play, something rare! Or a part where
I should be tearing Vorgebürg that everything fragmented - "The
Rocky Schooß and great shock shatters the castle of Kerkerthür and
Febbus Karr'n, Come angefahr'n, and makes erstarr'n, the fate Zier
proud!

    "- It went up! - Namset IZT the other
      agent - That was
     Herklessens streak! A tyrant vein! A
      lover is already gravely.

Sequence. Franz doldrums, the Bellows-Flik. Doldrums. Here, Peter
sequence. Sequence. You must take Thisbe on you. Doldrums. Thisbe
What is? A knight astray? Sequence. It is the Princessin in the
Pyramus love. Doldrums. No, my Six! Wives do not give me
part, I begin to have a beard to get. sequence. That's all one! You
must play in a mask, and so tender you can talk as you want.
BookMarks. If I may hide my face, so give me Thisbe also I will
monstrosen with a soft voice to talk - "Thisne, Thisne, ah!
Pyrimus, my dearest worth thy 'Thisbe tender, your tender Liebchen
"- sequence.

No, no, you must remain Beyme Pyramus and Thisbe must Seyn slump.
BookMarks. Good! continued! sequence. Schluker Max, the tailor.
Schluker. Here, Peter sequence. sequence. Schluker Max, you must
Thisbe Seyn mother. Hans walrus, the Keßler! Walrus. Here, Peter
sequence. Sequence. You, the father of Pyramus, Thisbe father myself.
Schnok, the carpenters, it makes the lion's part, I hope, now is
our Comödie in order. Schnok. Have you the lion's part written?
If it is so Seyde so well and give it to me, because I'm not even
fix for studying. Sequence.

You can make him ex tempore, because there is nothing more to tuna
than to shout. BookMarks. Give it to me the lion's moreover, I
will shout it the people in the heart thun probably should,
and I will roar, that the Duke say, Let him roar again, let him roar
again! sequence. If you do too well machtet so could you the duchess
and the ladies erschreken so that they too schreyer anfiengen, and
that would be enough for all of us bring to the gallows. All. Yes,
that would let us know of any mother-son hanging. BookMarks.
Sapperment! The think I want, if we do only from their five senses
schrekten, they would have no more secretion than us up. But I
want my voice already aggraviren, I want you so as you roar like a
young Daube, I want you yell, as if it would be a nightingale.

Sequence. Könnet Your Part no other than the Pyramus, for Pyramus
is a man with a woman's face, a clean man than any man on a summer
day look like, even a pretty Junker-moderate man, and therefore
it must necessarily make the Pyramus. BookMarks. Well, I
want him to take me. With what do you want a beard, that I should
play? Sequence. How? What you want to! Labels. I must also be
equal, I want him in either euerm strohfarbnen beard, or in euerm
orange-brown beard, or in euerm carmesin-red beard, or in French
euerm Crown farbnen beard, in euerm high yellow!

sequence. Many of our French crowns have no hair longer, and as if
you could do with a bald face played. But, you gentlemen, here are
your Pärt, and I ask, ask and beseech you, until tomorrow At night,
to learning, and in the palace wood, half an hour from the city,
back to me to come, so we can try Beyme moonlight, because if we
in the city came together, so we would get listeners, and the
matter came from .

In the meantime I want Aufsaz by Zurüstungen that we too have our
games Nöthiger. I ask, I am not left out. BookMarks. We want
to come! The idea is good, we can in the woods obscene and hearty
taste. Sequence. Bey Duke of oak, we want each other for you.
BookMarks. Genug, the strands may maintain or break! - (They all go
from.) Zweyter lift. First appearance . (A forest. A fee of one
occurs, and puk from the other side.) Puk.

Wohin, spirit, while only wand you? Fee. Over hill, over Thal, By
Heken and Ruth, over wood, on piles, Through fire and Fluthen;
Faster than the Moon sphere Wandre I restlessly back and forth. I
dien 'the Fairy Queen, To the silent dance, Beyme stars gloss,
Bethaute circle 'in the green with her zieh'n. Primuln It is the
nurse, on the young pastures glüh'n. On their göldenen garb Is each
Fleken a ruby, the mild Worein Feyen hand pours The scents that
make you entzüken . IZT I must geh'n and Thau of Grase pflüken, Primul
And each ear with a pearl schmüken. Fahr want, you dolt good
spirit, I must entflieh'n; The queen with all their elves Is the
notion hieher to zieh'n . Puk. The King cares for the night to
sleep here. Gieb Eight that your queen It's not come before
his eyes. For Oberon is still anger kindled, that they are on the
most recent Indus boys, Its Up, King robbed. eifersücht'ge The Oberon
desires the beautiful boy that he is intent on hunting him through
the wild forest accompany helfe, from her back, but always
relentlessly Keeps her very favorite for himself, crowned with his
own hands lokicht hair, And make from him all of their lust. Since
they never meet more in arcades, even on green corridors, nor
in silver springs, nor Beyme stars light; So fierce is their
quarrel, that all their elves Against Fear in maple cup is verkriechen.

Feye. Either IRR 'I am at your education and mine completely, or you
leichtfert'ge Are those mischievous spirit, The Robin Gutgesell called
the peasantry. Are you not the girl from the village Bey
erschrekt night, the milk of the cream steals, secretly turns the
mill, that makes the free-fat cream Bäurin from the Athem comes, And
that is not in the beer yeast sezt; Poor Wandre often tempts
the night, driving in swamps, and its still lachet Harms; Solo for
those who you call Hob-Goblin, and Holder Puk, their work
invisibly Thust, And do that they are good in all, Glük; Are
you not? Puk. You do not mistaken, it's me. I am the spirit
muntre night that you Meyns. Gaukler I always Oberon, and make
him smile, If I were a fat-rich bean horse whinny mach vain '; him
in the best shape of oncoming Stutt.

Hide me too often in a good old cup Gevatterin who liked
the cup empties; rothgesottnen Like a cancer, I swim around
in them, and if they drink, I want to Jump to their lips, and pour
the Kofent slippers on their bosoms.

Often provides, by a fröstig Mährchen The neighbors gently to sleep
befödert, A wise Mütterlein, troz their wisdom, dreygebeinten For a
chair at me, Then I slip under it, starting with wakelt ridiculous
oath and anger to the ground, the whole mine beyden holds
hands with the abdomen, and proposes the reverberating Getäfel With
whinnying laughter, slaps and swears, yet never so fun to have made
itself .* But, Fee, run you, Oberon ways; the point here! (ed
-* I genöthiget seen some disgusting Ausdrüke from this Gemählde
Ostade in taste, omit. A poet who worked only for listeners, has
been in the sixteenth century Freyheiten able to allow his Übersezer,
the eighteenth in the works for readers, not allowed.) Feye.
And here, for Unglük, my queen.

Zweyter appearance. (Oberon the king of the fairies, occurs on one,
and Titania the queen of the fairies, on the other side.) Oberon.
You're looking me in the moonlight, Titania? Titania. How, eifersücht'ger
Oberon? irrest you, your fairies, slips out with me, I have his
bed, and his treatment in due time. Oberon. standstill, outrageous,
I am not your Lord? Titania. So I'm your wife! I alone know the
time nor want to, because you think of fairy land you secretly steel,
and Corin in shape, the whole day in a lime sizend, On thy
Haber pipe fell sigh The beautiful Phyllida opposite girrtest!

Say why you went from distant peaks of Indian-country hieher? Weßwegen
else, because as the strozende, Diane-Geschürzte Amazonin equal,
your warlike mistress, with Theseus is married? You Koemm, is
not it? Bette at her beglüken? Oberon. How? leaves the Schaam DISS
to Titania, The Favor Hippolitas me vorzurüken? and white but, I
know thy love to Theseus? Warest you do not, lend him your Bey
shimmer through the shadow of the silent night, from Perigenias
page, which he previously geraubet hatt 'hijacked! And as you who
seduces him, his oaths as much betrognen nymphs, Ariadne, The beautiful
Ägle and Antiope to break? - Titania. Bad, bad dreams Grill The
jealousy! Since these beherrschet thee, Since that summer we were no
longer on hills, even in Thal in Hayn, on lawns, on the source 'of
pebbles on small rauschet, yet rapid streams, gushing from rocks,
yet at the sea klippenvollem beaches, For the happy dance together,
our Loken whispering of Play, jokingly winds to make.

All our games has disrupted your resentment. Drum also have
the winds in vain pfeiffer weary of us, such as revenge,
seuchenschwangre deep fog sucked from the lake, which afterwards,
gushed into the country, angry about each stream with such pride
schwellten, Fluth the fact that their leveling überströmte.
Umsonst Taurus has now taken his yoke, The Akermann has lost his
sweat, the green ear fault, eh their youth The first milk kränzt
hair. steh'n Leer hurdles in the drowned field, And crows fattens
the drowned Heerde.

With the mud ligt Kegelplaz met Unkennbar and verschwemmt
the smooth path through the mazes of spring green, otherwise
directed. The mortals lacked winterkürzenden The usual joys, And
night is no more hymns geweyht. Only Luna, the Beherrscherin the
Fluthen, Prior Unmuth pale, wash over the air, And they füllet with
feverish rivers. The seasons themselves are confusing, Beschneyte
frosts in fall The fresh Schoos the Ros', and winter on the old
Eys-gray crest, as such ridicule, A wreath of gesezt Holden
summer buds. The Lenz, summer, the fruit of autumn, winter change
their Liverey, And astonished world to no longer recognize the
familiar jewel of who everyone is.

Diss whole host of ways; the point plagues alone From our resentment,
our dichotomy of her.

We are the parents of these black brood!

    Oberon. Helfet So then, it is situated on you alone!
    How can their Titania Oberon yet more torment?

All I ask is just a small boy from a laff, From the Pagenberg I want
to do. Titania. Gebt you happy! Never kan DISS Seyn. Feenland
bought the entire non Diss child of mine. I loved his mother, she was
by my orders, and often the night in sweet-spiced Indian air by
their games to me the night shorter. They then sat on a yellow sand
Neptuni Bey me, and saw the vessels after Göldner, Die by the Fluth
with Pegus Schäzen hurried; We laughed when we saw how the
Seegel, From ausgelaßnen wind geschwängert, swelled; äffte it Diss
me a desire to make anmuthsvoller with floating movement, after
entertaining (her body was rich from my young knight) sailed ashore,
to fetch me trifles, and returned again, as a journey, with rich
Waar order.

However, since it was only mortal, she died at this child,
And ihrentwegen pull 'their boys to me, And ihrentwegen I will not
leave. Oberon. How long do you have in this Hayn to stay? Titania.
Maybe until after Hochzeittag of Theseus. Gefällt are you in our
circle to dance, And our moon-watch games, follow our example,
where not so different from me, as I want to avoid your hunts. Oberon.
Gieb my boys and I go ' with thee. Titania. Not for thy Kingdom.
My Elves, away! Giebt It just bicker when we longer line. (The Queen
and her entourage's up.) Oberon. Well, go thy way only! eh Hayn
leaving you searched, you should your Troz bestraffen - Hieher, my
muntrer Puk! Besinn'st you that I am on a Vorgebürg once sat, And
heard the Syrenen one too, as she, on a Dolphin Rüken sizend,
Sun zaubrisch-sweet tones that breathed by that even the raw lake
Bey Mild was her songs, Stars and liebestrunkne staggering fell
from their spheres, the music, the water-nymph listen? - Puk. - I
Remember's totally want me. Oberon. At the same time, 'I, (you did
not) the love of God in hasty balance between The globe and the
cold moons fly; He stopped, and directed the tight arc After a
divine Vestalin, * the thrones in the west ', and shot with such
power of the love arrow from his bow, as if' he split a hundred
thousand hearts; Solo I saw ', as his arrow feur'ger In the humid
stralen chaste moon is cleared, and in virgin considerations,
Freyer With spirit, the Royal Fine Vorübergieng. As noted 'I,
where the arrow of Cupid fell - he fell on a small flower, formerly
know as milk, IZT röthlicht from the wound of love, And call them
the Mäd'gens idle love. Brich' me this flower, I The Kräutchen
showed thee once; juice on her slumbering Auglieder poured out,
has the power, man or girl to add to Aberwiz next thing that meets
their Blik, love to make. Pflüke this flower, And sey to me back
here, Eh Leviathan swims one miles. (ed -* The fact that this
comedy still under the reign of Queen Elizabeth was listed, it
will make every noticeable that the Vestalin none other than
those designated virginal heroine. But that under the Syrene the
Queen Mary of Scotland displayed sey, seems a Sharp Warbürton first
to have noted. He noticed at all, this allegorical Schleyer, under
which a mixture of praise and Satyr is hidden, we need to derive
the conclusion that the speech of a person sey, which the poet
unverdekt neither commendable nor allowed to scold.

This now totally passe to Mary of Scotland. The Queen Elizabeth could
not suffer when Mary was praised, and its successor, (Jakob the 1st,)
would be a Satyr to his mother does not forgive. Alone, Warbürton
runs away, the poet has any distinctive fact of their lives and
nature in this beautiful allegory so much excellent, that of his
secret intention no doubt remain kan. is 1) a Syrene called from
the entgegengesezten reason why Elisabeth a Vestalin other words,
a vice nemlich due to derentwillen this unglükliche Princessin is
just as notorious as the Bey Syrene the old poets. 2) The Rüken of
the Dolphin, which she sizt, suggests the marriage of Queen Mary
with the Dauphin of France, the son of Henry the 2nd. 3) The
enchanting vocals Syrene this is an allusion to the extraordinary
talents and irritation of the imaginary Princessin, making them Bey
their stay at the French court in the world Verwundrung sezte. 4)
The fact that her voice the wild made tame the lake itself, indicates
the course of their absence in Scotland entstandnen unrest, their
return once again gestillet.

"His heated fancy pictured to him night-wandering forms slow-creeping
upon the house-tops; the windmill raised its arm, and threatened to
fell him to the earth; and in the tenantless house of death, the
only remaining mask assumed imperceptibly his own features.

"At once, in the midst of this delirium, the sounds from the
steeple, welcoming the new year, fell upon his ear, like distant
church music.

"He was moved, but to a gentler mood. He gazed around, unto the
horizon, and looked forth upon the wide earth; and he thought of the
friends of his youth, who, happier and better than he, were now
teachers upon the earth, fathers of happy children, and blessed each
in his condition.

"'Alas! and I, too, like ye, might now be sleeping peacefully and
tearless through this first night of the year, had I willed so! I
too might have been happy, ye dear parents, had I fulfilled your
new-year's wishes and admonitions!'

"In the feverish reminiscences of his youth, it seemed to him as if
the mask which had assumed his features in the house of death arose,
and grew into a living youth, and his former blooming figure stood
before him in the bitter mockery of illusion.

I do not know what power I breathed into this boldness, nor how
much it Above the eyes, my demureness To overcome kan, for my
inclination to take the floor. However, reports to me, my Lord,
the worst that can take me, If I weig're this man to take.

Theseus. The death of death or life long, the male society reject.
Consult your inclination so, Hermia! Remember your youth; Is So
cool your blood, and hast thou, when thou thy father's choice
Beschloßner do not want revealed, too, Muth enough forever
eingeschleyert into one desolate monastery Verschlossen murky
shadows, an infertile sister added live your life, sad hymns to the
cold moon entgegenächzend - Dreymal beglükt which, masters of their
blood, such 'a chaste Pilgrimschaft exist!

But earthly glüklich is the abgepflükte Rose, as the wilting
unvermählten Stoke individual Glükseligkeit In, seen by nobody,
ungenossen, wächßt and flourishes and dies. Hermia . So I want to
grow, so verblüh'n and die, My royal lord, eh my Freyheit the yoke
of the man is unterwerffen should Deß adverse dominion over my
soul Not to recognize.

Theseus. Take your reflection, And on the next new moon, The day
by Hippolita me glüklich makes Prepare yourself, after your father
you will be shown the Demetrius, or by your death of disobedience
Frefel to atone, or Diane at the altar of the monastery life
strict duty to swear. Demetrius. softening, most beautiful, you And
thou Lysander, If your weak claim my rights more from Frey Willig
- Lysander. you, Demetrius, her father's love, you just let me
Hermias; heurathe him! Egeus. Yes, Hönisch Lysander, it's true,
he has , my love, and what is my, my love Should 'give him it is
mine, And all my right to appear in' I Demetrio from. Lysander. I'm
so nobly born as he, I'm as rich as he, As more and love it, my
Glüke blooming on each branches, so beautiful as his, if not more
to say, And what DISS anything which he is rühmet alone outweighs
me loves the beautiful Hermia.

    And I should not because my right
     durchzusezen search? Demetrius,
     in the face claim 'ichs he applied
     recently to Nedars The beautiful daughter Helena, and won her heart.

IZT it languishes, the gentle soul! Until Abgötterey languishes
around this false unfaithful husband - Theseus. I must confess that
I have heard about it, and with which Demetrius geredt to have me
matters; But's own worries made me omitted. Kommt her, however,
Demetrius and Egeus, I got you beyden to apply something that I'm
very close 'betrift. You, however, Hermia, look 'to be different not
the whole Sazung The severity of Athens, which I can not weaken, you
meet, you want your Schwärmerey The desire of thy father
unterwerffest. How about, Hippolita? * Come, my love! Demetrius
and Egeus follow me (ed -* Hippolita had this whole time
not a single word spoken. Had a modern poet, the Office had her role
to include, so we would be busy all the others found, and no doubt
also want the lovers mildly Urtheil have expected of her:
Solo Shakespearewußte better thun to what he had observed and the
Decorum .

    Warbürton.) (As you go.) Zweyter
     appearance. (Lysander and Hermia remain.)
     Lysander. How? my love? how is your cheek So
     pale? why her roses fade? Hermia. Perhaps
     because they lack of rain, so I made the
     clouds in my eyes you could be
     plenty überthauen. Lysander. Hermia; so much
     in the stories I read and heard from narrative, flowed the stream
of true love never gently meantime.

Either it inhibited the state or of the annual distance, or
reluctance, the relatives, and if so the choice of lovers through
their sympathy to Beglükt Seyn promised, it was war, disease or
death between And makes' her Glük ephemeral as the noise, such as
fleeting shadows, just as like a dream, like the passing light
Bliz In a black night, the earth and sky In a Wink revealed, and
yet always has time to say: Look! heard of the open throats The
darkness is swallowed. So vain are the things that the most
beautiful shine! Hermia. because, if true love at any time by geprüfet
was nasty, and dissent of the fixed end of the fate is, So let
us test our patience consists 's because a vile and suffering
just as usual accessories of love is as amazed, dreams, sighs,
and wishes Thränen, the usual retinue of the lovesick imagination.

    Lysander. A good faith!
     So, also, if you
would have the summer of life fruitful of prosperity--its autumn
yield a rich and bountiful harvest, and the winter of old age made
comfortable and peaceful--the good seed of pure habits, and sound
moral and religious principles, must be carefully sowed in the rich
soil of the heart, in the budding spring-time of youth.

Due observation and reflection will enable the young to sow the
right kind of seed at the right time. There is much in this. Those
who sow late will be likely to have their harvest blighted by
chilling rains and nipping frosts. The earlier the seed is cast into
the ground, the greater the certainty that it will produce an
abundant crop. Reflection and discrimination are all-essential to
the youthful. Then he said: "The trouble is that the ships also
lack of good material and would be sad ..." Marcial, who heard
the conversation from the door, entered could not be contained and
saying: 'What have missed? The cannons _Trinidad_ 140: 32, 36, 34,
24, 36, 12, 18 to 30, and 10 to 24 shells. The _Príncipe
of Asturias_ 118, _Santa Ana_120 the _Rayo_ 100, _Nepomuceno_
the _San_ ... - Who put you here, Mr. Marcial - Chill Dona Francisca
- nor do we care if is fifty or eighty? Marcial continued despite
that, his statistical warrior, but in a low voice, speaking only to
my master, who did not dare to express their approval. She continued
to speak thus: "But, D. Rafael, is not you, by God. Tell you which
is of earth to be married. If Napoleon wants war, that makes him
alone, to come and say: 'Here I am: mátenme you, British, or
Just kill me. " Why Spain must be subject to the whims of that
gentleman - really - said Malespina - our union with France has
so far been disastrous. - So what have you done? Well said that man
is uneducated Godoy. If you believe that he governs a nation playing
guitar! - After the peace of Basle - continued the young - we were
required to antagonize the British, who fought our squadron at
Cape San Vicente. -- High-past - said D.

    Alonso, giving a strong punch on the table
     -. If the admiral had commanded
     orzar Córdova on ships from port to
     the forefront as the most popular calling laws of the strategy,
victory was ours.

I have tested this ad nauseam, and the time for fighting I record
my opinion. It is, therefore, each in its place. - The fact
is that the battle was lost - continued Malespina -. This
disaster would have been no major consequences, if, after the Court
of Spain had not concluded with the French Republic to the Treaty
of San Ildefonso, which put us at the mercy of the First Consul, and
forced to assist in war just as he and his large interested
ambition. The peace of Amiens was merely a truce. Returned to England
and France declared war, and Napoleon then demanded our help. We
wanted to be neutral, because under no obligation to that agreement
in the second war, with much energy but he asked our cooperation,
to appease, the King had to agree to give France a grant of one
hundred million reais, equivalent to buying gold weight neutrality.

But even so the purchase. Despite such great sacrifice, we were
dragged into war. England forced us to do so, after four frigates
inappropriate coming from America-laden flows. After that act of
piracy, the Court of Madrid had no choice but to go into the arms
of Napoleon, who did not want anything else. Our navy was at the
discretion of the First Consul and Emperor, who, aspiring to win
the British deception, provided that the parties to the squad combined
Martinique, to remove from Europe to the United Kingdom marine.
With this ruse to carry out its desired landing thought on this
island, but not so clever plan but served to prove the inability
and cowardice of the French admiral, who, back to Europe did not
want to share with our glory of battle ships of Finisterre.

Now, according to the Emperor's orders, the squad should be combined
in Brest. You say that Napoleon was furious with his admiral, and
he thinks the relief immediately. - But, they say - Marcial
said - and I want to paint Mr. Cornet looking for an act of war that
do forget their mistakes. I am glad, because this would see who can
and can not. - I doubt - continued Malespina - is that the English
squad going around and trying to block Cadiz. Spanish sailors believe
that our fleet should not leave the bay, where there is likely to
expire. But the French seem to insist on leaving. - Veremos - said
my master -.

Anyway, the battle will be glorious. - Glorious, yes - answered Malespina
-. But who says it is lucky? Sailors are forged illusions,
and perhaps for being too close, unaware of the inferiority of our
war against the British. These, plus a superb artillery have everything
needed to quickly replenish their failures.

Do not say anything as to the personal: the best of our enemies is
composed mostly very old and marine experts, while many of the
Spanish ships were manned largely by people from Cam, lazy and
always knows just the job; the body of infantry is not a model,
because the vacancies have been filled with ground troops very
brave, no doubt, but that tide. - Well - said my master - within a
few days we will know what has to prove that. - What has become of
me I know - noted Doña Francisca -. These gentlemen, while that have
achieved great glory, will be home with their heads broken. - Woman,
what do you understand that? - Said D. Alonso can not contain an
outburst of anger, which lasted only an instant. - More than you! -
She replied warmly -. But God will want to preserve you, Mr. D.
Raphael, to return safe and sound. "This conversation happened during
dinner, which was very sad, and after referred to as the four
characters do not say a word. Once it is checked off, which was
tiernísima and by a special favor, typical of that solemn occasion,
let alone the kind parents to the bride and groom, allowing them
say what they do and no witnesses to the disguise does not force
them to omit an accident that was breathing its grief. As much as
I could not attend the event, and I is therefore unknown what
happened to it, but it's easy to assume that all the tenderness
imaginable would be for both sides.

Malespina When you left the room, was more than a pale deceased.
Despidiose in a hurry for my masters, who embraced him with great
affection, and left. When we went to where my Amit, we find it:
so great was his pain that loving parents could not calm her spirit
with ingenious reasons, not temper his body with that kind of
costume in a hurry the drugstore. I confess that, deeply
sorry, I too, seeing the misery of the poor lovers are the cushions
in my chest that I rencorcillo inspired Malespina. The heart of
a child and forgive easily, and mine was not the least prepared
to sweet and expansive feeling. VII-A the next morning I
prepared a big surprise since my love stronger tantrum that I had
in your life . When I got up I saw that D. Alonso was very
kind, and his wife more irritated than usual. When she went to
church with Rosita, warned that Mr was great hurry to get some
shirts in a suitcase and wearing apparel, among which was his
uniform.

    I helped him and what I smell a loophole, but
     I was surprised not to see Marcial anywhere.
     Not long, however, to explain his absence,
     since D.

Alonso once managed his brief baggage, he was very impatient,
until at last the sailor appeared saying: "There's the car. Let's
go before it comes. "Load suitcase, a hat and Don Alonso, Marcial and
I went through the gate of the corral to not be seen, we climbed it,
and departed this so as to escape the squalor of the hack allowed the
drag, and the configuration of the road Procel. This, if chivalry
was bad, wicked car, but despite the tombs and archways, tight
passage, and until we lost sight of the people, not eased somewhat
in the martyrdom of our bodies. That trip me extremely fond of,
because the boys were upset any new trial. Marcial was no joy
in it, and I love that first joy was almost less serious
than I was quite saddened when he left to see the people.

From time to time saying, "And she so foreign to this! How to tell
when I get home and not find us! I will broaden my breast with the
sight of the landscape, with the joy and freshness of the
morning, and especially with the idea of early Cadiz Bay and its
incomparable populated buildings, its streets bustling and cheerful,
his Caleta, which symbolized for me the most beautiful time of
life, liberty, and its square, the wharf and other places very
dear to me. We had not gone three miles when we reached to see two
knights mounted on magnificent chestnuts, which came after we
were together in a short time. Point to recognize Malespina and his
father, that Mr tall, very stiff and charlatan, who spoke before.
Both were amazed to see D. Alonso, and more when he told
them he was going to Cadiz to embark. He received the news with
sorrow the son, but the father, who, as then understood, was a
swashbuckling topped congratulated my master very campanudamente,
calling sailors flower, mirror of the sea and honor of the motherland.
We stopped for lunch the Parador de Conil. For the gentlemen who had
given it, and Martial and me over so that was not much. I served
as the table, I could hear the conversation, and knew better then
the old Malespina, if I first went to my eyes like a liar full of
vanity, then I found the funniest windbag I've heard in my life.
my future father-in-law Amit, D.

José María Malespina who had no kinship with the famous sea of the
same name, was retired colonel of artillery, and stood her pride
in knowing that fund and manage it as a terrible weapon anyone. Dealing
with this matter was looked more like his great imagination
and desparpajo to lie. "The gunners - said suspend for a moment
without action gulp - make much needed on board. What is a ship without
artillery? But here you can see the effects of this wonderful
invention of human intelligence is on the ground, Mr. D. Alonso.
When the war of Roussillon ... you know I took part in that
campaign and all the wins were due to my success in managing the
Artillery ... The battle of Masdeu, why do you think won? General
Ricardo I stood on a hill with four pieces, sending fire but did
not when I ordered it.

    But I, who saw things differently, I was until
     a column callandito French wine to be placed before
     me in such a provision, that my shots were rowed
     from one extreme to another. The French formed
     the line with great perfection. I took good aim
     with the piece of directing targeted at the head
     of the first soldier ... Do you understand? ... As
     the line was so perfect, shot, and you zas!,
     The bullet took one hundred and forty-two heads,
     and did not fall over because the end of the line moved
     a little. That produced great consternation in the enemy,
     but as they did not understand my strategy
     and could not see me at the site was sent to another
     column attacking troops were to my right, and that
     column was the same fate, and another and
     another until the battle is won. - It is
     wonderful - said my master, who, knowing the magnitude
     of the ball, he refused, however, belie his friend.
     - For the second campaign under the command of Count
     of the Union, also scar the beauty of the Republicans.
     Defending Boulou, we went well, because we ended up
     ammunition: I did everything with great destruction loading a piece
with the keys of the church, but they were great, and finally, as
a remedy of desperation , got into the barrel bore my keys, my
watch, my money, how many trinkets found in pockets, and, finally,
to my crosses.

What is that particular one of these was to be printed on the chest
of a French general, where he remained stuck and not hurt. He kept
it, and when he went to Paris, the Convention does not know if
sentenced to death or exile for having accepted a government
decorations enemy. - What a monkey! - Muttered enjoying my master
so chuscas inventions. - When I was in England ...-- continued
Malespina old - because you know that the English Government sent me
to perfect the Artillery call from that country ... Every day he
ate with Pitt, with Burke, with Lord North, with the general and
other VIPs Conwallis I called _The español_ funny.

I remember once being at the palace, begged me to show them how it
was one, and I had to ride, sting and kill a chair, which a
lot of fun the whole Court, especially when King George III,
who was well and my buddies always told me that sends you to find
my ground olives good.

Oh, I had much confidence with me. Every effort was to teach Spanish
words and some of it on our funny Andalusia, but was never able to
learn more _otro toro_ and _vengan these cinco_ sentence that
greeted me every day when he went to lunch with him and whiting Some
Cañitas Jerez. - It was what he liked most. I did bring bottled
snake Cadiz: conservábase well with a specific invention, whose
recipe I have at home. - Wonderful. And you reformed Artillery
English - asked my master, encouraging them to follow, because
he had fun .-- Completamente. They invented a cannon that never
fired, because London, including the Court and the Cabinet,
came to beg not to do the test for fear of it falling to the ground
shaking many homes. - So you have such a large part been relegated
to oblivion - wanted to buy the Emperor of Russia, but it was not
possible to move the site it was. - But could you get us
out of trouble by inventing a cannon shot to destroy one of the
English squad. - Oh - answered Malespina -.

    I'm thinking about that, and
      I think I can do my thinking.
     Now I'll show you the calculations
      that you have made not only
     to increase to a fabulous end the
      caliber of the guns, but
     to build resistance plates to defend
      ships and castles.

     It is the thought of my entire life.
      "All they had completed
     feeding. We were eating in a
      snap and I Marcial leftovers, and
     we continue the journey, riding
      them, marching to the steps, as
     before, and we, in our derrengada
      buggy.

Frequent food and drinks with the dew still excited over the vein
of old Malespina inventor, who continued all the way espetos their
big paparruchas.

The conversation turned to the subject where it had started a
war of Roussillon, and D. Joseph rush to refer new feats, my
love, and tired of lying so much, he wanted to deviate from that
area, and said: "War and impolítica disastrous.

    The more we would have not been taken!

- Oh - Malespina exclaimed -. El Conde de Aranda, as you know,
condemned from the start this disastrous war with the Republic.
How much we talked about this issue!

... because we are friends since childhood. When I was in Aragon,
spent seven months together in the hunt Moncayo. I just build for
him a singular shotgun ... - Yes: Aranda always opposed - said my
master, in addressing the dangerous road of the ballistics. -
In effect - continued liar - and if that man eminent defended
so hot peace with the Republicans, because I was advised, before
convincing the untimeliness of the war. More Godoy that was valid
and then, stubbornly continue on, just to take the contrary, as I
understood later. The most amusing is that the same Godoy was
forced to conclude the war in the summer of 95, when understood to
be ineffective, and then awarded himself the title of roaring _Príncipe
of Paz_. - What we are lacking, friend D. José María - said my
master - a good man to match the circumstances, a man who is not
entering into unnecessary wars and keep intact the dignity of the
Crown! - Well when I was in Madrid on last year - continued
the liar - I made proposals to carry out the Secretary of
State. The Queen was very hard on it, and the King said nothing ...
Every day he came to Brown to pull a couple of shots ... So it was
up Godoy, knowing my superiority, and if not, I would have failed
to enclose a castle where I would not do that. But I refused,
preferring to live in peace in my village, and stopped public
affairs in the hands of Godoy. Here you have a man whose father was
a mule boy in the meadow that my stepfather was in Extremadura. - I
did not know ...-- said D. Alonso -. Although dark man, I
thought that the Prince of Peace belongs to a family of nobles,
small fortune, but of good principles.

"Thus continued the dialogue, Mr. Malespina dropping balls like
temples, and I love hearing with santa calm, sometimes looking
angry and pleased to hear so much nonsense. If I remember correctly,
also said D. Jose Maria Napoleon had advised that the daring
act of the 18 Brumaire. With these and other things we anocheció
Chiclana, and my master, and atrociously broken ground because
of the movement fementido calesín, stayed in the village,
while others continued Wishing to reach Cadiz on the same
night. While dinner, foist Malespina new lies, and I could see that
his son heard the penalty, as ashamed to be the biggest liar
father who raised the land. Despidiéronse them, we rested until the
following day at daybreak, when it we continue our journey,
and as it was much more convenient and expedient to Cadiz Chiclana
since that trip in the stretch, we arrived at the end of our trip
at about eleven of the day without news on the health and soul happy.

VIII - - I can not describe the enthusiasm aroused in my soul back
a.

    As I have a bit of freedom, after my
     master was installed at the home of
     his cousin, got out and ran into the
     streets without a fixed address
        for them, intoxicated with the atmosphere of my beloved city.

After such a long absence, the I had seen many times enchant my attention
as something new and extremely beautiful. How many people saw
the passage was a friendly face, and everything was nice and sunny
for me: men, women, elderly, children, dogs, even the houses, as
noted in my youthful imagination that does not know what
to personal and lively, I was represented as sentient beings,
involving the general parecíame happy for my arrival, mimic their
balconies and windows factions in a jubilant face.

         My spirit was reflected
     in everything outside their own happiness. Ran
     through the streets with great anxiety, as if in a minute I would
see them all.

In the Plaza de San Juan de Dios I bought some candy, rather than
the pleasure of eating, the satisfaction of the sellers appear to
regenerate, to whom I spoke as a former friend, recognizing friendly
as some earlier in my misery, and other as victims, not appeased,
my innocent love of loitering.

Most are not remembered me, but I received some injuries, recalling
the exploits of my childhood and so chistosos commenting on my new
pack and the severity of my person, I had to leave in a hurry, do
not hurt me without decorum some fruit peels by expert hand-delivered
my new clothes.

    As I was aware of formality, these jokes rather pride that
    caused me grief. Traveled the wall and then counted all the
    boats moored in sight.

I talked to many sailors found the passage, saying that I was
going to the squadron, and to inquire whether there was a
very emphatic landfall Squad Nelson. After I said _Mr. Corneta_ was
a coward, and that the next role would be good. Get to La Caleta,
where my joy had no bounds. I went down to it, and remove your
shoes, I jumped from rock to rock, I looked for my old friends of
both sexes, but did not find but very few, some were men and had
already embraced best race, while others had been loaded by the
cam, and which were hardly recognized me.

The movable surface of the water woke voluptuous sensations in
my chest. Unable to resist temptation, and compelled by the
mysterious attraction of the sea, whose eloquent rumor always has
seemed to me, I do not know why, a sweet voice calling in the
bonanza, with urgent calls or anger in the storm, I was naked at
all hurry and I launched it as one who throws in the arms of a
loved one.

Nadé more than an hour, experiencing an indescribable pleasure, dress
and then continued my walk toward the neighborhood of the
Vineyard, where I found some uplifting taverns the most famous lost
my glorious time. Talking with them, I missed the man pro, and as
such spent in giving away few rooms that I had. Ask my uncle, but
I was not any news of his lordship; hubimos and then chatted a bit,
made me drink a glass of brandy to the point that my poor body had
come ashore. During my strongest drink - I think those tunantes
laughed when they gave me the win, but once they calm me a bit, I
left the tavern avergonzadísimo. Although he was very hard, I go
through my old house and saw the door to a woman who tattered blood
and guts frei. Moved in front of my home birth, I could not contain
tears, which, as seen by the woman with guts, he figured mockery or
ploy to steal your fries. I, therefore, that out of his hands
with the lightness of my feet, leaving more time for the relief
of my feelings. I wanted to do after the old cathedral, which was
one of the most tender memories of my childhood, and I came into it:
I found your lovely site and I never walk the halls with any temple
as religious veneration.

I think I was strong desire to pray, and I did indeed, kneel on the
altar where my mother had a vote for my ex-salvation. The character
of wax that I thought was my perfect portrait hung there, and
occupied his post with the severity of the holy things, but I
felt like an egg to a chestnut. That doll, which symbolized piety and
maternal love, I breathed, however, respect livelier. I prayed on
his knees for a while remembering the suffering and death of my
good mother, who had God in heaven, but as my head was not good,
because of the fumes of cursed spirits, to get up I fell, and a
sexton hard prettily put me on the street.

He has become a curse to himself, he has
brought disgrace and wretchedness on his connections, and is an
outcast and vagabond, with whom no young man who now hears me would
associate for a single hour!

What has brought him to this pitiable condition--this state of utter
wretchedness? It was a want of forethought. He totally neglected the
considerations I have endeavored to impress upon the young. He was
careless and indifferent in regard to his associates. He would not
be admonished to turn from the company of the vicious, and seek the
society of those of good habits and upright character. Despite
the counsel of parents and friends, he would associate with
companions of corrupt habits--with the profane, the drinking,
the Sabbath-breaking--those whose chief delight was to visit
oyster-cellars and grog-shops--whose highest ambition was to excel
in cards, and dice, and sleight-of-hand tricks--and who sought for
no better employment than to range the streets and alleys, to engage
in midnight adventures and Bacchanalian revelries. Mingling with
such as his associates, and falling unavoidably into their habits,
he is now reaping the _bitter_--BITTER fruits of his folly. His time
misspent--character destroyed--health ruined--every source of
happiness obliterated--his life wasted and literally thrown
away--his days, a _blank_--ah! worse than that--filled with the
terrific visions, the horrid dreams, the flames of the unquenchable
fire, which float and burn in the veins of the confirmed inebriate!

Young men! Do you shudder at the condition of this wretched youth,
whose form yet flits like a shadow through our streets? Would you
avoid his fate? Do you start back in affright at the mere thought of
becoming the poor, cast-off wreck of humanity that he is? Then avoid
the rock on which he foundered his bark. Shun, as you would a nest
of vipers, the company of the reckless and profligate. Avoid all
association, all companionship, all intimacy, with those whose
habits deviate from the high rules of rectitude, purity, and virtue.

Allow me to paint you a picture of an opposite character, drawn also
from real life. I have another young man in my mind's eye, who
originated in our own county. He had but few of the advantages of
him whose melancholy career I have painted. He was the son of
parents who possessed but little means, and who could afford him no
assistance after the days of childhood. He was early placed to the
hard labor of a mechanic. But he did not sink into lewdness and
vice, under the pressure of his adverse circumstances. He would not
spend his leisure hours at public resorts, in the midst of the
profligate and reckless. Each moment of respite from labor, he
applied himself to study and the improvement of his mind. With great
wisdom he avoided the company of idle, profane and vicious youth;
and would associate with none but the discreet, the intelligent and
virtuous. He was determined to RISE in the world, and to win a name
which should live long after he should pass from the earth. He
placed his mark high! With indomitable courage and unwearied
perseverance, he pursued the path he had chosen for himself. He cut
his way through every obstacle, and overcame every hindrance and
difficulty, though they might seem to tower mountain high. Friends
came to his aid, as they will to the assistance of every youth who
is industriously seeking to rise in the world by the strength of his
own merits. At length, after great exertions, he obtained a
profession, and entered into a field where he could bring into
active exercise the fund of knowledge he had been acquiring under so
many difficulties. One thus industrious, thus pure in his habits,
thus upright and honorable in all his transactions, could not fail
to receive the commendation and confidence of his fellow-citizens.
Rapidly he rose from one post of honor to another. Ere long he was
sent to the Legislature of our State. Soon he entered the halls of
Congress, where he won the confidence of his compeers, and arose to
honorable distinction. From step to step he advanced--high and
higher still he ascended the ladder of fame--until now, the poor
mechanic boy of Montville, occupies the _second place_ in the gift
of the American people--within _one step_ of the highest pinnacle of
fame to which man can attain on the earth! How noble the career--how
splendid the example--placed before the youth of our country, in the
history of this eminent man! How honorable to himself--how worthy of
imitation.

I need not ask the young men of this audience, which place they
would prefer to occupy, the position of the poor inebriate of whom
I have spoken, or that of the Vice-President of the United States?
It is instructive to inquire why the one, with opportunities so
good, sunk so low, and the other, with early advantages so limited,
has arisen so high? This disparity in their condition is to be
attributed to the different paths they selected at the outset of
life. While the one trampled on all his advantages, and foolishly
associated with the vicious and unprincipled, the other diligently
applied himself to the acquisition of useful knowledge, and was
scrupulous to associate with none but those who were discreet and
virtuous, and whose influence was calculated to elevate and purify
him.

These two cases, drawn from real life, are but a specimen of
instances with which the world is filled. They show how immensely
important it is for the young to reflect maturely on the course they
would pursue, and the necessity of selecting for their associates
such as have habits, tastes, and principles, proper for commendation
and imitation.

Most of those who come under the influence of corrupt associates,
are led thither more from sheer thoughtlessness, than from any
disposition to become depraved. They fall into the company of those
who are gay, sociable and pleasant in their manners; who make time
pass agreeably, and who contrive many ways to drive dull care away,
which do not, in themselves, appear very bad. The thoughtless youth
becomes attached to their society, and gradually gives himself up to
their influence. Almost imperceptibly to himself, he follows them
farther and farther from the path of rectitude, until, before he is
aware of it, some vicious habit has fixed its fangs upon him, and
made him its wretched slave for life.

The difficulty in these cases, is the want of a due exercise of
reflection and discernment. The young should guard against being
deceived by outward appearances. Beneath a pleasant, agreeable
exterior--beneath sociability and attractive manners--there may lurk
vicious propensities, depraved appetites, and habits of the most
corrupt nature. Hence the young should look beyond the surface, and
guard against deceptive appearances. It should not be enough to make
a young man or a young woman your associate, that they are sociable
and attractive in their manners, and can make their company
agreeable. Search farther than this. Strive to know their tastes,
their habits, their principles. Inquire how, and where, they spend
their leisure hour's--in what company do they mingle--what practices
do they approbate--what is their general conduct and demeanor? If in
all these respects, they are found to be discreet, virtuous, and
worthy of imitation, then hesitate not to associate with them, and
allow yourself to be influenced by them. But if you find them
deficient in any of these characteristics, however attractive they
may be in other respects, shun their company, and avoid their
influence. The effect of associating with them would be to lead you
astray, to your ruin.

So you see that I liked the frankness! ... told us that we put on the
front because we were attacking. He made a thousand questions, but
we told him that we gave the winning answer. In the meantime, the
other three enemy frigates had come to ours, so that each of the
other Spanish English was the leeward side. - His position
could not be better - my master said. -- So I say - continued
Marcial -. The leader of our squad, D. Jose Bustamante, did little
list, which if it had been me ... Well, sir, the _comodón_ (meant
Commodore) English sent aboard the _Medea_ one of these oficialillo
tail of pollock, which, without beating at Chiquita, said _anque_ not
declared war, he had orders from _comodón_ apprehended.

This really be called English. The fight started at a short time,
our frigate received the first burst of port, he replied
to the greeting and go gunshot, gunshot comes ... the truth of the
matter is not got a grip on those heretics _por mor_ that the devil
was stuck and the fire in the Santa Barbara _Mercedes_, which
blew a sigh, And with all this success, we grieve so much, ...!, not
feel so sobered by a lack of courage, but by what they say ... _The
moral_ in ... then ... _denque_ the same time we were lost.
Our frigate sails had more holes that old coat, broken strands,
five feet of water in the cellar, the mizzen mast of lying, three
bullets and a lot of water bloom dead and wounded. Despite this, we
still had the _cuchipanda_ with the English, but when we saw that
the _Medea_ and _Clara_, unable to resist chamusquina, flags lowered,
forcing sailing and we pulled defended as we could. The damn game
gave us the English frigate, and as a sailboat that was ours,
we could not zafarnos and we also had to lower the cloth at three
in the afternoon when we had killed many people, and I was half
dead on the sollao because a bullet gave the win to take off
his leg. Those convicted took us to England, not as prisoners but
as prisoners, but letter is letter comes between London and
Madrid, it would certainly be left with the money, and I think when
I was born the other leg, then the King of Spain will see the tip
of the hair to five million pesos. - Poor man ... And then lost
leg - compassionately told Dona Francisca. - Yes Madam, the
British, knowing that I was not a dancer, thought he had enough with
one. On the voyage I healed well in a village called _Plinmuf_
(Plymouth) spent six months in the pontoon, bundled with the
mat and another patent for the world in your pocket ... But not that
God wanted me to chop off as soon: an English physicist, I began
this leg of stick, which is better than the other, because it hurt
me in the damn rheumatism, and this, thank God, but the cast does
not hurt a discharge of shrapnel.

As for toughness, I think, you _aunque entavía_ I have not been set
before the stern test for any English. - Very brave're - I said love
-; God does not want to miss the other. "He who seeks danger
..." Once the relationship Marcial, locks again the dispute over
whether or not my master would go to the squad. Doña Francisca
persisted in the refusal, and D. Alonso, in the presence of his
wife was a worthy gentle as a lamb, looking for excuses, claiming
all sorts of reasons to convince them.

       "We'll just see, woman, nothing more than to see - said the hero
with beseeching eyes. -- Let the festivities - he answered his wife
-.

Good pair of Esperpentos are both. - Combined Squad - Marcial said
- will stay in Cadiz, and they try to force entry. - Well - said
my love - you can see from the function the walls of Cadiz, but it
is in the boats ... I say no and no, Alonso. In forty years of
marriage I've seen angry (he saw it every day), but now I swear that
if you're on board ... Paquita do realize that there is for you. -
Woman! - exclaimed with grief my love -. And I would die without
such gusto! - Nice taste, man of God! Watch how these crazy people
kill! If the King of Spains if I did, send a short stroll to the
English would say: "My dear subjects are not here for you to have
fun with them. Métanse you slaughter each other if they want to
play. " What do you think? Yo, but stupid, well I know what's here,
and that is the First Consul, Emperor, Sultan, or whatever, wants
to tackle the English, and not for the soul of men, has been our
good trickster king to provide it with theirs, and the truth is
that we are defeating their maritime wars. You tell me: what is going
to Spain or comes into this? Why should it be every day
gunshot by gunshot and more simplicity? Before the mischief
that has Marcial, what damage we had done the English?

    Ah, if so if what I say, Mr. Bonaparte of the
     war cabinet alone, or if you do not
     arming! - It's true - my master said - that the
     alliance with France, we are doing much
     damage, because if it is any benefit to our
     ally, and all disasters are for us. - Then topped
     stupid, why are you heat the birds with this
     war - The honor of our nation is committed
     -- answered D.

Alonso - and once caught in the dance, it would be a diminishing
return.

When I was last month in Cadiz in the christening of the daughter
of my cousin, I Churruca said: "This alliance with France, and the
accursed Treaty of San Ildefonso, which Bonaparte and the cunning
of the weak has become Godoy treaty benefits, will be our ruin will
be the ruin of our squad, if God is not remedied, and thus the ruin
of our trade and the Spanish colonies in America.

    But despite all, we must move forward. "- Well I say -
    doña Francisca added - that the Prince of Peace is getting into
things that do not understand.

It can be seen, just a man with no education! Arcediano My brother,
who is a supporter of Prince Fernando, said that Mr. Godoy
is a soul pitcher, and has not studied Latin and theology, because
everything comes down to knowing your playing and know the twenty-two
ways of dancing the gavotte . It seems that your pretty face you have,
the prime minister. Things go well in Spain, then hunger and
starvation ... all so expensive ... yellow fever ravaging Andalusia
... This is beautiful, yes, sir ... And so you have to blame - the
voice continued swelling and becoming very incarnational - Yes
sir, that you offend God by killing so many people, you, if
instead of getting into those devilish boats, were to the church
to pray the rosary, do not walk so Patillas monkey doing loose
in Spain. - You'll also to Cadiz - said D. Alonso eager to arouse
enthusiasm in the breast of his wife -; going home to Florida and
from the lookout you can see comfortably battle, the smoke, the
flashes, the flags ... It is quite pretty. - Thank you,
thank you! I would scared to death. Here we stand still, that he
who seeks danger perishes in it. Thus ended that dialogue, the
details of which I kept in my memory, despite the time elapsed.
More often happens that the facts very remote from our childhood
remain engraved in the imagination with the greatest firmness that
witnessed in mature age, and where power predominates over all
reason. That night, D.

Marcial Alonso continued to confer on the few times that the suspicious
Doña Francisca left alone. When she went to the parish to attend
the ninth, according to pious tradition, the two marine school
breathed freely as they lose sight of busy teacher. Encerráronse
in the office, drew maps, and were examined with great care,
then read some papers in which he outlined the names of many
British ships with the number of guns and their crews, and
during warm conference, which alternated with the reading the
strongest comments, I noticed ideaban plan a naval combat.

Marcial imitated gestures with his arm and half the progress of the
brackets, the explosion of the rounds, with his head, the
balance of the boats combatants, with their body, the falling side
of the ship to be sunk, with her hand, raising and lowering of
flags to signal a slight hiss, the command of the boatswain, with
the beating of his foot against the wooden floor the roar of
cannon; rag with his tongue, the oaths and unique voices of the
battle, and I love him as supported in this task with the utmost
seriousness, I wanted my room to throw swords, encouraged by the
example, and giving natural breathing this need-eater meter noise
dominates the temperament of children with absolute rule.

Poderme contain without, seeing the enthusiasm of the two marines,
began to whirl around the room, because the trust that was treated
by my master allowed me to do so, imitation with his head and arms
the provision of a ship that fits the wind, while PROFERI, hollow
voice, roaring monosyllables that resemble a gunshot noise, such
as ¡bum, bum, bum! ... My respected master, the maimed sailor, so
kids like me at that time did not stop lying on what I did, because
they attached their own sick thoughts. How much I laughed
after recalling that scene, and how true is this respect to my
colleagues in that game, the excitement of old age makes children
old, renewing pranks from the cradle to the very edge of the tomb!
They were very engaged in his lecture, when felt the footsteps
of Dona Francisca returning to the ninth. "What comes! - Marcial
exclaimed with terror.

And the point is, conceal his excitement, and talking about
things pusiéronse indifferent. But I, because blood could not
abating youth easily, either because they did not observe the
entry time of my love, still in the middle of the room showing
my alienation with phrases such as these, uttered with the greatest
desparpajo: the wall to starboard! ... ¡Keel! ... The barrage
of lee! ... Fire! ... ¡Bum, bum! ... She came to me angry, and without
warning I downloaded the barrage at the stern of his right hand with
such good aim, which made me see stars. 'You too! - Shouted beaten
without compassion -. You see - he added looking at her husband
with twinkling eyes -: you teach him to lose respect ... Did
you believe you're still in the Caleta, piece of zascandil? The
spanking continued as follows: I walk into the kitchen, weeping
and ashamed, having lowered the flag of my dignity, and without
thinking about defending against such a superior enemy behind
Dona Francisca giving hunting and testing my neck with repeated
blows of his hand. In the kitchen missed the anchor, whining,
considering how badly I had completed naval combat.-V-to oppose
the reckless determination of her husband, Dona Francisca was not
based only on the reasons above, had, in addition to those,
other powerful, not mentioned in the previous dialogue, perhaps
too well known.

But the reader does not know and I will decírsela. I have written
my master had a daughter. Well, this daughter was named Rosita,
age slightly higher than mine, just as happened in the fifteen
years, and their marriage was concluded with a young artillery
officer named Malespina, a family of Medinasidonia, distantly
related to the my loves. Had set the wedding for the end of
October, and it is understood that the absence of the father of
the bride would have difficulty in so solemn days. I'm going to say
something about my lady, your boyfriend, his loves, his project
liaison and ... Alas, here take my memories tinged melancholy,
evoking images in my fancy and exotic molested as coming from another
world, waking up tired in my chest sensations, in fact, do not know
whether my spirit to bring joy or sorrow. These burning
memories, which seem to August today in my brain, such as tropical
flowers transplanted to North ice cream, make me laugh sometimes,
and sometimes make me think ...

But we, the reader is tired of thinking about it unfortunate that
a single mortal interested. Rosita was beautiful. Remember her
beauty, though I would be very difficult to describe its features.
It seems that I see her smiling in front of me. The unique
expression of his face, that of any other like it is for me, the
clarity with which my understanding is offered as one of these
primitive notions, it seems we have brought from another
world, or have been raised by mysterious power from the cradle. Yet
it can not respond to paint, because it was real as was an idea
in my head indefinitely, and nothing fascinates us so much, and
nothing escapes so subtly to the entire descriptive assessment, as
an ideal sweetheart. Entering at home, I felt it belonged to Rosita
a higher order of creatures. Explain my thoughts so that you
will admire my simplicity. When we are children, and a new world comes
to be in our house, people tell us that he had brought from France,
England or Paris. I fooled all about this unique way of perpetuating
the species, believed that children were on order, a cajoncito
packaged as a bundle of hardware. However: for the first time the
daughter of my masters, so that went pretty person could not
have come from the factory where we come from all, ie Paris or
England, and I am persuaded of the existence of an enchanting
region where divine architects knew so beautiful styling of the human
person. As children both, although in a different condition,
we will soon discuss with the trust's own age, and that was my
biggest play with her, suffering all their impertinence, which were
great, because our games are never confused classes: she was always
the lady, and I always grew up, so I bore the brunt, and had beaten,
it is not necessary to mention here who received.

Fetching to leave school to accompany them home, it was my dream of
gold, and if for some unforeseen occupation was responsible for
another person so sweet commission, my punishment was so profound
that I equated with the increased penalties that can go in life,
being a man, and said: "It is impossible for me to be great when
more experienced misfortune.

Up to an order of orange onto the patio of orange blossoms on the
highest branches, it was for me the greatest delight, position
or prominence than the best king of the land up on a throne of gold,
and I do not remember joy comparable to that caused me forcing
me to chase her divine and immortal in this game they call.
If she was running like a gazelle, I was flying like a bird to
pick it up quickly, seizing him by the body part that was most
handy. When cutting paper, when she was the pursuer and to me it
was being taken was something innocent and the pure delight
that sublime game, and more dark and ugly place, where I, shrunken
and pulsating, waiting for the printing anxious to strengthen his
arms, was a veritable paradise for me. Add that never, during those
scenes, I had a thought, a feeling, not emanating from the most
refined idealism. And what I will say your song? From a very young
girl used to sing _olé_ and _cañas_ with the mastery of the
nightingales, you know everything in the field of music without
having learned anything. All praised him that ability, and formed
a circle to hear it, but I offend the applause of his admirers,
would have wanted to silence her and to others.

That song was a melancholy chirp, even his voice modulated
by children. The note, which impacted on its own, disentangled and
entangled, like a thread of sound, rising and lost vanished
away to return to ring serious decline. Emitted by a bird appeared,
going back to heaven first, and then sang in our ear. The soul,
if I may use a vulgar simile seemed to be stretched along the
sound, and then contracted back to him, but not yet associate
the melody and music to the beautiful singer. So singular was the
fact that for me to hear her sing, especially in the presence of
others, was almost a mortification. We had the same age, more
or less, as I said, because only exceeded theirs to mine at about
eight or nine months.

But I was pequeñuelo and rickets, while she was developing with
great freshness, and thus to fulfill the three years of my residence
in the house, she seemed much older than me. These three years were
spent without suspecting that we were going to grow, and our games
are not interrupted as it was more naughty than I am, and her
mother rhenium, ensuring secure and make it work. After three
years I warned you that the forms of Miss my idolatrada widen and
round, completing the beauty of her body: her face was more on,
fuller, warmer, more vivid their big eyes, but with the look and
errátil less voluble, his walk more calmly, and their movements do
not know whether more or less light, but certainly different, but
could not then nor now can I appreciate what the difference.

But none of these accidents confused me as much as the transformation
of his voice, which took some serious sound quite different from
that mischievous and joyful shriek before they called me, disrupting
the trial, and forcing me to forget my chores, to attend the game.
The cocoon is pink and turned into the chrysalis. Fateful day
a thousand times, thousand times mournful, my Amita was filed
with me in costume. Transfiguration that produced such an impression
on me that all day I did not speak a word. I was serious as a
man who has been cruelly deceived, and my anger against him was
so great that I tried in my soliloquies with a strong case that the
rapid growth of my Amita was a felony. It gave me the fever raciocinar
and controversial topic that passionately about myself in the
silence of my insomnia. What I was aturdía see that with a few
yards of fabric had completely changed its character. That day, a
thousand times unhappy, I had a ceremonious tone, computer and even
with gravity displicencia the chores I dislike, and she was so often
accomplices and accessories of my laziness, then rebuked me lazy.

And all these, or a smile or a jump, not a babe or a fast race, not
a little _olé_ not hide from me in that look, nor pretend to laugh
after angry or a disputilla or pescozón even with its soft
manecita! terrible crisis of existence! She had become women, and
I was still a child! No need to say goodbye to romp and play, no
longer back up to orange, with orange blossoms grew quiet, free
from my girlfriend rapaciousness, developing leaves and freshness
with every luxury with its provocative fragrance, and ran no more
for the patio, or did more trips to school, to bring her home, so
proud of my committee who has defended against an army, if he had
tried quitármela.

    Rosita since he was with the greatest
     circumspection and seriousness, I
     noticed several times to climb a ladder in
     front of me, taking care not to show
     a single line or an inch above his ankle beautiful,
     and this system of fraudulent
     concealment was an insult to the dignity
     of those whose eyes had just seen above.

Now I laugh considering how my heart is with those things. But even
had the most terrible misfortunes occur. The year of its
transformation, aunt Martina, the cook Rosario, Marcial and
other characters of the easement is held a day of some serious
matter. Diligently applying my ear, then I learned that rumors
were startling: the lady was going to married. The thing was
unbelievable, because I do not know him any boyfriend.

But then I managed all the parents, and it is rare that sometimes
came out of all evil. For a couple of great family requested his hand,
and my masters is granted. This young man came home with his
parents, who were a sort of count or marquis, with a roaring
title. The suitor brought her Navy uniform, which served honorable
body, but in spite of very elegant jaez, its facade was very
pleasant. This must have seemed to me Amit, then from the beginning
that showed disgust toward wedding. His mother tried to convince,
but to no avail, and he did more complete picture of the good clothes
of the groom, his high lineage and great wealth. The girl was not
convinced, and these very reasons against other strings.

Naughty But the main thing is silent, and the main thing was that
I had another boyfriend, whom I really loved.

The other was an artillery officer, called, very nice and
gentle figure. My Amita had known him in the church, and the perfidious
love seized it, while praying, because the temple was always
very purposefully for his poetic and mysterious place, to open
wide the doors to the love of the soul . Malespina around the house,
which I watched several times and discussed in Vejer both of these
loves, the other knew, and were challenged. My masters knew when
the news came home that Malespina had mortally wounded his rival.
The scandal was big. Religiosity of my masters was so shocked with
that fact, who could not conceal his anger and Rosita was the main
victim. But it was months and months, the wounded man was cured, and
as a person Malespina was also rich and well born, were noted in
the political atmosphere of the house that the young Barruntar D.
Rafael would go into it. Resigned to link parents of the injured,
and instead the winner was at home for your child to ask the hand
of my dear Amit. After some delay, was granted. I remember when
he was there. It was a very dry and stiff, with thirty colors
suck, many flaps on the clock, great Colet, and a very long and
sharp nose, which seemed to sniff at the people who held the
conversation. He spoke at the elbows and left no opportunity to
put the other: he said it all, and could not praise anything,
because at that point I walked out saying I had another better.

    Since then he crossed out by man and mentirosísimo vain,
     as I was able to see clearly later. My
     master received him with entertainment, as well
     as his son, who came with him. Since then, the
     boyfriend continued going home every day,
     alone or in company with his father. New Amita
     my transformation. His indifference towards me
     was so strong, touching the limits of
     disrespect.
     --meaning that with an income of $500 a year, he
persisted in spending $1000; or with an income of from $2000 to
$3000, he regularly spent from $5000 to $8000, according to his
ability to run in debt, or the credulity of others in trusting him.

"The victims of this immorality--debtor as well as creditor--are
entitled to more faithful dealing at the hands of those not directly
affected by the misdemeanors of the former. It is the duty of the
community to rebuke and repress these pernicious glosses, making the
truth heard and felt, that inordinate expenditure is knavery and
crime. No man has a moral right thus to lavish on his own appetites,
money which he has not earned, and does not really need. If public
opinion were sound on this subject--if a man living beyond his
means, when his means were commensurate with his real needs, were
subjected to the reprehension he deserves--the evil would be
instantly checked, and ultimately eradicated.

"The world is full of people who can't imagine why they don't
prosper like their neighbors, when the real obstacle is not in the
banks nor tariffs, in bad public policy nor hard times, but in their
own extravagance and heedless ostentation. The young mechanic or
clerk marries and takes a house, which he proceeds to furnish twice
as expensively as he can afford; and then his wife, instead of
taking hold to help him earn a livelihood by doing her own work,
must have a hired servant to help her spend his limited earnings.
Ten years afterward, you will find him struggling on under a double
load of debts and children, wondering why the luck was always
against him, while his friends regret his unhappy destitution of
financial ability. Had they, from the first, been frank and honest,
he need not have been so unlucky.

"Through every grade of society this vice of inordinate expenditure
insinuates itself. The _Rayo_ ran north. According to the indications
iban sailors, who was beside me, we passed in front of the bank
Marrajotes of Get Out, John Ball, compared to Torregorda and,
finally, facing the castle of Cadiz. In vain all the maneuvers are
executed to bring the bow into the bay. The old ship, a frightened
horse, refused to obey, the wind and sea, with mighty fury running
from south to north, dragging him, without which science could be
nothing to stop sailing. Pretty soon exceed the bay . To our right
was soon Rota, Punta Candor Punta de Meca, Rule and Chipiona. There
was no doubt that _Rayo_ inevitably going to crash right on the coast
near the mouth of the Guadalquivir. I need not say that the candles
were loaded, and not simply as an appeal against this heavy storm
is also declined topmasts. Finally, it was thought necessary to
chop sticks, so that the ship was under the waves rush. In large
storms the boat needed to pump, oak high grass wants to be humble,
and their masts which can not bend the branches of a tree is in
the painful precision of amputees, losing members to save life.
loss of the ship was already inevitable.

Chopped sticks and more tables, you will be abandoned, and the only
hope was to be able to anchor near the coast, which prepared the
anchor, reinforcing moorings. Fired two cannon for help to the beach
and close, and clearly distinguished as some fires on the coast, we
are pleased, thinking they would not miss us help. Many felt that a
Spanish or English ship was stranded there, and saw that the fires
were ignited by the crew shipwrecked. Our anxiety grew by the day,
and for me, I must say I felt closer to a disastrous end. Neither
did care what happened on board, nor the embarrassment of my spirit
could handle more than death, that inevitable judged. If the ship
crashes, who could save the space of water that separate the
earth? The most terrible storm is where the waves are stirred
against the ground, and seem to be digging into it to take pieces
of the deep sea abyss. The thrust of the advancing wave and violence
that creeps to retire are such that no human force can defeat them.
Finally, after several hours of mortal anguish, the keel of _Rayo_
played on a sand bar and stood .

The hull and all the remains of its rigging retemblaron a moment:
it seemed that trying to overcome the obstacles in his path,
but it was higher, and the ship, leaning forth from one side and
another plunged her stern, and after a frightening crack was no
movement. Everything was closed and was no longer possible to deal
more than saving lives, crossing the area of sea that separates us
from the coast. It seemed almost impossible in vessels that were
on board, but had hopes that we send aid of earth, for it was
evident that the crew of a wrecked ship just bivouac there, and
could not be away from the Balandre war output of which in such
cases the authority should have provided naval Cadiz ...

The new _Rayo_ made shots, and we expect more relief with
impatience, because not come soon, all would perish with the
ship. This wretched cripple, whose bottom was opened to run
aground, threatening to tear its own convulsions, and could not
take the time that deranged the nails of some of its frames,
we would be at the mercy of the waves, without more support than
give us the messy remnants of the ship. The land could not help us,
but God wanted to hear the alarm cannon sloop that had been done
to the sea from Chipiona, and we were approached by the bow, keeping
a good distance.

Since its large mainsail sighted we secure our salvation, and
the commander of _Rayo_ gave the orders for shipment without a check
in such dangerous moments outrage. My first intention, when I saw
that it was transhipped, was run alongside the two people there that
interested me: the gentleman and Malespina Marcial, both injured,
while the second was not so serious.

I found the officer of artillery in quite poor condition, and said
to those around him: "Do not move me, let me die here."

Marcial was carried on deck and was lying on the floor with such
prostration and despondency that truly inspired me fear his
face. He raised sight when I approached him and tomándome hand,
said with shocked voice: "Gabrielillo not forsake me .-- To
earth! All we're going to land! " , I exclaimed trying to
resuscitate, but he, moving his head with a sad gesture, seemed
to presage a disgrace. I tried to help with lifting, but
after the first effort, his body fell again Lich, and finally
said: "I can not . bandages his wound had been dropped, and the
disorder of that tight situation who did not find the application
again.

I cured him as I could, consoling words of hope and tried to laugh,
ridiculing his look, to see if it revived in this way. But the
poor old man did not deploy their lips, but inclined his head
with gloomy gesture, insensitive to my jokes like my consolations.
Busy here, warned that he had not started boarding the boats. Almost
from the first that they were dropped D. José María Malespina
and his son. My first impulse was to go after them following
the orders of my master, but the image of the injured seaman and
left me contained. Malespina did not need me, while Marcial,
almost as dead closely with your iced my hand, saying:
"Gabriel, do not forsake me." The boats dock hard, but despite this,
once transhipped wounded, The embarkation was easy, because the
sailors were precipitated by slipping them into a rope, or throwing
a jump.

    Many were thrown to the water to reach swimming.
     It crossed my imagination as a terrible idea which of those two
procedures used to save me.

There was no time to lose, because the _Rayo_ was disrupted almost all
the stern was sinking and the outbreak of the beams and frames that
either half may announce soon that mole would become a boat. Everyone
ran with alacrity to the boats, and the sloop, which was kept at a
distance, jockeying with the ability to resist the sea, collecting
them. The boats returned empty soon after, but were soon filled
again. I saw that it was abandoned in the Middle-man, and I
went to crying and stifled some sailors, a request to load a save
to Marcial. But they did enough to save it themselves. In a
moment of desperation I tried to echármele him, but my little
forces barely able to lift his arms to the ground fainting. I ran
across the deck looking for a charitable soul, and some were about
to yield to my entreaties, but the danger distracted them from
thinking as well. To understand this inhumane cruelty, it must have
been found in trances so terrible: the feeling and love disappear
before the self-preservation dominates the be completely comparable
to a sometimes fierce.

"Oh, those evil do not want to save, Marcial! - exclaimed with
great pain. - leave - he said -. It does on board than on land.
Márchate you, run, kid, you leave here. "I do not know what more my
idea mortifies mind: whether to stay on board, which would perish
without remedy, or just leaving out that bastard. Finally, the other
could voice of nature that some other force, and say a few steps
to the side.

Retreating to embrace the poor old man, and then ran quickly to
the point where the last board sailors. There were four when I
arrived, I saw that the four were thrown into the sea and
came swimming to the boat, as he was about ten or twelve yards
away. "What about me - I exclaimed in anguish, seeing as I left
--. I'm going too, me too! ". I shouted with all my strength,
but I did not hear or did not want to make the case. Despite the
darkness, I saw the boat, I saw them get into it, but this operation
could be determined only by the view. I am prepared to throw into
the water to follow the same fate, but at the same moment that I
will be found in this resolution, my eyes no longer see a boat and
crew, and before me there was that horrendous dark water.

All means of salvation was gone. I turned their eyes to all sides, and
I did not see more than the waves that shook the remains of the ship,
in heaven or a star, on the coast or a light. The sloop was gone
too. Under my feet, kicked in anger, the hull of _Rayo_ broke
into pieces, and only kept the party united and whole-head
with deck full of offal. I was on a raft report that at times
threatened to unravel. To see me in this situation, I ran into Marcial
saying: "I have left, have left us!". The old man joined in with
great work, supported in his hand, lifted the walked with
his head and clouded the view that dark space surrounded us.
"Nothing! - cried - not seen anything. Or boats, or land or lights,
or coast. Not again. "In saying this, a terrible cracking sound
beneath our feet deep in the bow of plaice and entirely flooded.

The palace was in a violent side, and we had to be heavily agarráramos
the basis of a windlass to avoid falling overboard. The apartment
we are missing the last remaining _Rayo_ would be swallowed
by the waves. More like never abandoned hope, I still believe that
situation may be extended until dawn without worsening and I am
comforted to see that the stick ratchet still standing. With the
firm purpose of getting a helmet when he had just sunk, I looked
at that tree proudly floating pieces of rope and rags of sails, and
resisted, Colossus desgreñado by despair, asking mercy to heaven.
Marcial was dropped in deck, and then said: "There's no more hope,
Gabrielillo.

Neither of them want to return, or the sea would leave them if
they try. Because God wants it, here we both die. I care nothing
for me: I am an old and not good for the damn thing ... But you
... You are a child, y. .. "In saying that his voice became unintelligible
by emotion and hoarseness. Shortly after I heard these words
clearly:" You do not have sin, because you're a child. But I ...
Well that when one dies and ... Let's say ... well, like dog or cat
that does not need a priest to come and give the _solución_, but
enough with that and understand one's self with God. Have not you
heard you that? ". I do not know what I answered, I said nothing,
and I began to mourn without consolation." Mood, Gabrielillo - continued
-. The man must be a man, and now is when you know who has a
soul and who does not. You have no sins, but I do. They say that
when one dies and no cure is you confess, you must say what is the
first in the consciousness that you find.

    Well I tell you, Gabrielillo, I
       confess to you, and I will say my
     sins and that God is behind me is
       listening to you, and I will forgive.

     "Horrified by the Silent and solemn
       words I had just heard, I hugged
     the old man, who continued in this way:
       "Well I say that I have always been a Christian Catholic _postólico_,
Roman, and I have always been and am a devotee of the Virgin of
Carmen, who called to my aid at this time and say that if twenty
years ago that I did not receive communion or confession, was not
by me but by _mor_ the damn service, and it will always leave one
for next Sunday.

But now I weigh not having done so, I say, and declare and perjuro,
I wish to God and the Virgin and All Saints, and that anything
that has offended me punished, because if I confessed and communicate
this years was _aquél_ of _casacones_ damn, that made me go out to
sea when he was the _proeto_ meet with the Church. I have never
stolen or the tip of a pin, no more lies I said that any other
for that joke.

Of the clubs that gave my wife thirty years ago, I regret,
though he was well taken, because that was more bad _churras_ and
a genius picón more than a Scorpion. I have not missed so much as
it sends the Ordinance, no hate to anyone other than the
_casacones_, who had wanted to see action picadillo, but then say
that we are all children of God, I forgive them and forgive _así
mismamente_ the French, who brought us this war. And do not say
more because I think I am going to full sail. I love God and I am
calm. Gabrielillo, abrázate me, and apriétate well against me. You
have no sins, and you walk with angels _finiqueleando_ divine.

Better to die at your age that live in this world ... _emperrado_
With that mind, boy, that this is over. The water rises, and _Rayo_
is at an end. The death of that drowning is very good: do not be
scared ... abrázate me. Within a minute we will be free of grief,
I realized my God peccadillo, and you as a happy Easter, dancing
across the sky, which is carpeted with stars, and there appears
that happiness does not end ever, because it is eternal that's like
another said, tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow and the next and
always ...

"He could not talk more. I got heavily into the body of the Middle-man.
A violent coup sea shook the bow of the ship, and felt the scourge
of water on my back. I closed my eyes and thought of God. At the very
moment I lost all feeling, and did not know what happened. XVI-again-I
do not know when, to enlighten my mind clouded the concept of life,
I felt freezing cold, and this accident only introduced me to the
very existence, since no memory of the past to keep my mind and
could not take care of my new situation. When my thoughts were clearer
and lethargy vanished from my senses, I found myself lying on the
beach. Some men were all around me, watching with interest. The first
thing I heard was: 'Poor ...!, and returns itself. "Slowly I was
coming back to life, and with it the memory of the past. I remembered
Marcial, and I think the first words were articulated by
my lips to ask him. No one knew an answer. Among those around me
to recognize some of the sailors _Rayo_, I asked for Middle-man,
and all agreed that had perished. After I learned how I had
saved, but I was not right. Diéronme do not know what to drink, I
was taken to a nearby house, and there, beside the fire, and cared
for by an old woman, recovering health, but the forces . Then
they told me that having left another sloop to recognize the remains
of _Rayo_, and a French ship that ran the same fate, I found next
to Marcial, and were able to save my life.

My companion was dead agony. They also knew that the crossing of
the wreck to the shore had died some unhappy. I wanted to
know what it was Malespina, and there was no reason for me to
give a parent or child. _Santa Ana_ asked for, and told me they
had come to a happy Cadiz, whose story I immediately decided
on my way to meet my master.

I was quite a distance from Cadiz, on the coast that corresponds
to the right bank of the Guadalquivir. They must immediately embark
on the march to go as soon as possible during the project. I waited
two days more to recover, and at last, accompanied by a sailor
who took the same path, I march to Sanlúcar. On the morning of 27
I remember we crossed the river and then continue our journey on
foot to leave the coast. As the sailor who accompanied me was
francote and happy, the trip was everything nice that I could
expect, given the state of my spirit, still despondent over the
death of Marcial and the last scenes that I witnessed on board.
Along the way we departed on the wrecks and the battle that
came after him. "Good Middle-Marine was a man - told my travel
companion -. But who will put out to sea with a cargo of more than
sixty years? Well, you used to have that. - It was a brave
sailor - I said - and so fond of war, nor their aches arredraron
when he tried to come to the squad. - Well, I dismissed it - continued
the sailor -. I do not want more battles at sea.

The King pays poorly, and then, if one is lame or bucket, you are
good nights, and if you've seen I do not remember. It seems that
the King case lie so badly to be able to serve. What do you think?
Most of the commanders of ships that have been beaten on 21, many
months ago that their payments are not paid. Last year was a Captain
Cadiz, not knowing how to keep themselves and their children, began
to serve in an inn. His friends found him, though he tried to hide
his misery, and finally managed to get so vile state. This does
not happen in any nation in the world, then let out a big scare was
that we conquer the English! So do not say anything about weapons.
The arsenals are empty, and asking for more money to Madrid, or
one quarter. Truth is that all the treasures of King used to pay
salaries to the gentlemen of the Court, and they eat the most is the
Prince of Peace, which brings together 40,000 Durazo as a State
Councilor, as Secretary of State, as Captain General and Master
Sergeant guards ... I said, I do not want to serve the King. In
my house I'm going with my wife and my children because I have already
met, and within a few days I have to leave. - Then you will not
complain, buddy, if it was going in _Rayo_, a ship that just into
action. - I was not in _Rayo_, but in the _Bahama_, which undoubtedly
was the best boats and longer fought. - has been arrested, and
their commander was killed, if I remember correctly. -- That was -
replied -.

    And still I want to mourn when I remember
     Don Dionisio Alcalá Galiano, the bravest
     of the army brigadier. But: the
     genius was strong and not missing the smallest consented, but its
much rigor required us to want more, because the captain is feared
that severe, if the severity accompanying justice, gives respect,
and finally is winning the affection of the people.

You can also say that another gentleman, and more generous than D.

Dionisio Alcalá Galiano was not born in the world.

    So when you wanted to give his friends, he is not around the
    bush, and once in Havana spent ten thousand hard at giving a banquet
on board his ship. - I heard that it was also very wise man in the
boat . - On the boat?

Merlin and knew more than all the doctors of the Church. If you had a
plethora of maps and discovered that I do not know what lands are
there for the same hell! And so the men sent to battle to die as
a cabin boy! We count on you what happened in the _Bahama_. Since
the battle began, D. Dionisio Alcalá Galiano knew we had to
lose, because that damn turn round ... We were in reserve and we
stayed in the queue. Nelson, who was not a frog, he saw our line
and said, 'Well, if the shorter of two distinct points, and I
pick them between two fires, I was not spared either and both of
ship. " So did the damn, and as our line was so long, _The
head could not go to the rescue of the cola_ [6]. We defeated
parties attacked in two strong columns arranged wedge mode, that
is, to say, how to fight using the Moorish captain Alexander the
Great, and Napoleon also used today say.

The truth is that we wrapped and we split and we ship was finished
so that we could help each other, and each ship had to fight
three or four. [Note 6: Words of Nelson. (N. A.)] 'Well,
you see: _Bahama_ was the first of which took fire. Alcalá
Galiano magazine crew at noon, discussed the batteries, and we
threw them a harangue in which he said, pointing to the flag:
"Gentlemen, you are all on the understanding that that flag is
nailed. We already knew what kind of man we sent, and so we are not
surprised that language. After he told the Marine guards D. Butrón
Alonso, in charge of it: "Take care to defend it. Galiano no
surrender and no one should do Butrón. "- Is a shame - I said
- that these men have not had a leader worthy of their value since
they were not instructed the command of the squadron. -- Yes it is
sad, and you will see what happened. He started the scuffle, which
was good thing you know, if you were aboard _Trinidad_.

Three ships riddled with bullets by our port and starboard. From
the first moments they fell like flies the wounded and the
commander received a strong contusion on his leg, and after a
astillazo in the head, which did much damage. But do you think
will lose its nerve, and went with ointments or patches? ¡Quia!
Remained in the palace as if such a thing, but very dear to him
by his side fell to rise no more. Alcalá Galiano sent the artillery
and maneuver as if we had been doing the salute in front of
a plaza. Balita a little thing you took the glasses, and this made
him smile. I still think that I am seeing. Blood staining of the
wounds was in uniform and hands, but he was not taking care of it
than if they were drops of salt water splashed by the sea.
"[7] There
is nothing sad and gloomy in these views; but everything pleasant
and inviting.

[Footnote 5: Prov. iii. 15, 16, 17.]

[Footnote 6: Ps. xxxiv. 11-14.]

[Footnote 7: Ps. i. 1, 2, 3.]

I would disabuse the young of the idea that religion is needed only
by the aged, the sick, and the dying; and that it can be of no
essential service at other times. It does indeed become the hoary
head, more than the jewelled diadem. It is the comforter of the
sick--the supporter of the departing spirit--giving it a sustaining
power which all earth's riches cannot purchase. But religion is
quite as appropriate and essential to the youthful as to the aged
and sick. It is equally as important that men should _live_ right,
as _die_ right. There is no way so effectually to insure a peaceful
and happy death, as to live a good and useful life. Religion leads
to such a life, and prepares the way for such a death. Hence the
necessity that the young should give themselves up to its influences
in the morning of their days, that their meridian may be fruitful of
good, and their evening sunset calm and serene.

Away, then, with the supposition, that religion is not adapted, nor
necessary to youth. "The flower of youth never appears more
beautiful, than when it leans towards the Sun of Righteousness."
Religion is the brightest ornament with which the young can bedeck
themselves. The fragrant blossom which crowns the tree, is not more
beautiful, or hopeful of coming fruitfulness, than is religion to
the freshness of youth. Indeed, as the blossom is necessary to
insure the rich and golden fruit, so is early religion requisite to
a useful and prosperous career. It is the best preparation the young
can secure for after life, whatever calling they may pursue. There
is no occupation, no pursuit, no profession, which they will not be
far better prepared to enter, by the influence of an enlightened,
cheerful, enlarged Christian faith and practice. These will
interfere with no useful enterprise, no honest business, no laudable
calling; nor prevent the prosecution of any of the many projects
among men, which comport with the public good, and are executed
on principles of integrity. Religion will make its possessors
better and more successful laborers, mechanics, manufacturers,
agriculturists, merchants, and more respected and useful members of
any of the learned professions.

Marcial and I have to wrangle ... Go to the boats if he wants to
take away from the leg that remains ... Oh, San Jose blessed! If my
fifteen I knew what was Seafarer ... What torment! Not a day of
rest! Is a home to live with her husband, and maybe come to a
dispatch from Madrid in two Palotada sends me what I know to where,
to Patagonia, to Japan or to hell. Is a ten or twelve months
without seeing him, and finally, if you are not eaten by wild
gentlemen again made a misery, so sick and yellow one who does not
know what to do to return to its natural color ... But not in old
bird cage, and suddenly comes another despachito Madrid ... You go
to Toulon to Brest, to Naples, here ACULLICO or where it chooses
to bribonazo First Consul of the ... Ah, if we all do as I say, how
soon would pay all together so that it brings alicia stirred
the world, 'My master glanced smiling a bad stamp stuck on the
wall, and, awkwardly lit by unknown artist representing the Emperor
Napoleon, green knight on a steed, with its famous redingote daubed
in vermilion. No doubt the impression left in me this work of
art, which for four years, was due to change my ideas about the
costume of the great man smuggler and, thereafter, I dressed as a
cardinal and represented mounted on a horse green. 'This is not
living - Doña Francisca continued waving his arms -. God forgive me,
but hate the sea, although they say it's one of his best works. I
do not know what it is for the Holy Inquisition into ashes if these
devilish warships! But come here and tell me: What's that stand for
throwing bullets and more bullets, no more no more, placed on four
tables, which, if broken, thrown into the sea hundreds of unhappy?

Is this not tempt God? And these men were mad when they hear a
gunshot! Nice grace! I shake my meat when I hear, and if everyone
thought like me, there would be no more wars in the sea ... and all
the guns would become bells. Look, Alonso - he added, stopping
before her husband - it seems to me that you have already defeated
several times. Want another? You and those like you so mad, you are
not satisfied after the 14? [3] [Note 3: This is called the battle
of Cape St. Vincent. (N. A.)] D.

Alonso squeezed fists to hear those sad memories, and not
uttered an oath of respect for the Marine to his wife. "Blame
your obstinacy in going to the squad - the lady added more and
more angry - the Picarones is Marcial of this devilish sailor
who had drowned a hundred times, a hundred times and has been saved
to torment me. If he wants to re-engage with his wooden leg, his arm
broken, his eye and under his fifty wounds, to be in good time, and
God does not want to look back over here ... but you do not you
go, Alonso, you are not going because you're sick because you have
served well to the King, who incidentally has rewarded you very
badly, and I you, I tiraría to face Mr Generalísimo sea and land
gallons of Navy Captain who have ten years ... A faith that you
have made admiral had at least enough that it deserved when
the issue went to Africa and I got those blue accounts, with
the collars of the Indians, I used to decorate the. - Whether or
not Admiral, I I go to the squad, Paquita - said my master -.

I can not miss this fight. I have to charge the English somewhat
countdown. - Well you're charging for these accounts -
answered my loves - a man and half sick bucket ... - Gabriel
will be with me - said D. Alonso, looking at me in a way that gave
value. I made a gesture indicating my agreement with such a heroic
project, but be careful that I do not see Dona Francisca, which
I have noted the overwhelming weight of your hand if you watch
my warlike provisions . The latter, seeing that her husband seemed
resolved, is more enraged, vowed that if re-birth, not married
to any marine pests Emperor said thousand of our beloved King,
the Prince of Peace, all signatories treaty benefits, and concluded
by assuring the brave Marine that God would punish him for his
wanton recklessness. During the dialogue that I have referred,
does not respond to its accuracy, with only vague memories in me
fundo, a dog and coughing reece, resonating in the room immediately
announced that Marcial, the dizzying old, heard from near the fiery
speech of my loves, that he had been cited several times with
little feedback benevolent. Willing to take part in the conversation,
which allowed him the confidence he had in the house, opened the
door and was presented at the fourth of my master. Before moving
forward, I want to give it some news, as well as his noble consort,
for better understanding of what will happen.

-III-D Alonso Gutiérrez de Cisniega belonged to an ancient family
of Vejer. Consagráronle a naval career, from his youth, and
Marine Guard, distinguished himself honorably in the British
attack directed against Havana in 1748. He was part of the expedition
which left Cartagena against Algiers in 1775, and is also found
in the attack on Gibraltar by the Duke de Crillon in 1782. Embarcose
later expedition to the Strait of Magellan in the corvette _Santa
Mary of Cabeza_, sent to Don Antonio de Cordova, also was found
in the glorious battles he held the Anglo-Spanish fleet against the
French in front of Toulon in 1793, and finally ended his glorious
career after the disastrous meeting in San Vicente, sending
_Mejicano_ the ship, one of which had to surrender.

Since then, my master, who had not risen in line with their work and
long career, he retired from service. As a result of wounds received
on that sad day, he fell ill of body, soul and more seriously,
although as a result of the defeat. Curábale his wife with love,
not without some screaming, as the curse navy sailors were already
in his mouth as usual as the sweet names of Jesus and Mary
at the mouth of a devotee. She was a lady Dona Francisca excellent
example of noble origin, devout and God-fearing, like all females
of that time, charitable and discreet, but with more Arisco
possessed genius and I have known in my life. Frankly, I do not think
that ingénito as irascible temperament, but rather created by the
misfortunes that resulted desabrida the profession of her husband,
and we must confess that it does not complain without reason, then
that marriage, which for fifty years would have could give the
world twenty children and God, had to settle for one: the lovely
and unique Rosita, who will speak later.

For these and other reasons, Doña Francisca called to heaven in your
daily prayers the annihilation of all the squads in Europe.
Meanwhile, the hero was consumed in Vejer sadly watching their
laurels and apolillados Roide, and meditated and went at
all hours on a important issue, namely that if Córdova, our
squadron commander, had sent orzar to port instead of ordering
the maneuver to starboard, the ship _Mejicano_, _San José_,
_San Nicolás_ and _San Isidro_ would not have fallen into the hands
of British, and Admiral Jerwis English would have been defeated.

His wife, Marcial, to myself, exceeding my powers, we said that the
thing had no doubt, to see if giving us believe were tempered by
the burning alive of his mania, but not those by his obsession
accompanied him to the tomb. It took eight years after that disaster,
and the news that the combined fleet would have a decisive meeting
with England produced some excitement in it that seemed to rejuvenate.
He, therefore, the flower that he had to go to the square to witness
the undoubted defeat of its deadly enemies, and while his wife
tried to dissuade, as I said, it was impossible to deviate
from such a bizarre goal. To understand how vehement was his
desire, just to say that dared to oppose, while avoiding any
dispute, the firm resolve, and I must warn, to give insight into
the stubbornness of my master, he had no fear of the English ,
neither the French nor the Algerians, or the wilds of the Strait
of Magellan, the sea or irritated, or aquatic monsters, or the noisy
tempest, or the sky or the earth was not afraid to anything created
by God, rather than its blessed woman.

Réstame Sailor talk now, object of hatred more alive by Dona Francisca,
but loving and loved by my brotherly love D. Alonso, with whom
he had served. Marcial (never I knew his last name), called the
Middle-man crew had been boatswain on warships for forty years. At
the time of my story, the facade of this hero of the seas was very
unique that you can imagine.

Figúrense you, my lords, an old man, rather than under high, with
a wooden leg, his left arm nearly cut off below the elbow,
an eye less, face a multitude of CHIRLA scribbled in all directions
and disorder out by enemy weapons of different kinds, with dark
complexion and tanned like the ancient mariners of all,
with a hoarse voice, hollow and lazy not seem to any rational person
of the land, and this idea may be formed character, whose memory
makes me lament the dryness of my palette, as a faith that should
be painted by a skilled portraitist. I can not tell whether to
laugh or did they look imposing respect: I think both, and depending
on how you look. We can say that his life was the story of the Spanish
navy in the latter part of last century and the beginning of
this , whose history in the glorious pages alternate with action
sad misfortunes. Marcial had sailed in _Conde of Regla_ in _San
Joaquín_ in _Real Carlos_ in _Trinidad_, and other heroic and
hapless vessels, apparently defeated with honor or destroyed by
treachery, plunged the table with its old Spanish naval power. In
addition to the campaigns that took part with my master, the Middle-man
had attended many, including the expedition to Martinique,
and the action of Finisterre before the terrible incident in the
Strait on the evening of July 12, 1801, and the battle of Cape
Santa Maria on October 5, 1804. At the age of sixty-six years was
withdrawn from service, but not for lack of spirit, but because
it was completely desarbolado and out of combat.

    He and my master was on shore two good friends, and
     as the only daughter of the petty officer
     is found married to a former servant of the
     house, becoming a grandson of this
     union, the Middle-man decided to drop the
     anchor for ever, as a old pontoon useless
     for war, and even made the illusion that he loved peace.

It was enough for him to understand that the job could be more difficult
than the one the rest of a glorious hero was to take care of kids,
and indeed, Marcial was not anything other than loading, distraction
and sleep in his grandson, whose task it was sufficient for their
songs with a seasoned seafaring oath, own the business. But to
know that the squad were also admonished for a large fight, his chest
felt reborn in the damped enthusiasm, and dreamed that he was sending
the sailors on the forecastle of the fortress _Santísima Trinidad_
. As in D. notase Alonso resurgence of the same symptoms, was achieved
with it, and since then spent most of the day and night communicating
and received the news as their own feelings, talking about past
events, making assumptions about the future and dreaming awake
as two boy intimate confidence in the manner calculated to reach
admirals. encerronas These, which had greatly alarmed at Dona
Francisca, was embarking on the squad to attend the next battle.

    You know the opinion of my love and mischief
     thousand trickster who said the sailor,
     and know that D. Alonso insisted implement
     so bold thinking, accompanied by his
     Paje, and now I can relate to what
     everyone said when Martial was presented to defend the war against
the shameful _statu quo_ of Dona Francisca.

IV-"Lord Marcial - said it with redoubled fury: - if you want to
go to the squad to give the last hand, you can board anytime,
but this is what we will not go. - Okay - said the sailor, who
was sitting in the edge of a chair, with just enough space to
hold -: I'll go myself. The devil take me, if I run out to throw
the glass at the party. "Then he added with an expression of joy:"
We have fifteen ships, and the little French twenty-five boats. If
they were all ours, did not need much ... Forty vessels and shipped
much heart!

                             "As the fire
    communicates a wick that is close to another,
    and the enthusiasm radiating from the eye of
    the two Martial lit and obscured by the
    age of my good master." But the _Señorito_ -
    continued Middle man - many will too. So I
    like the functions to me: a lot of
    wood where mandar bullets and gunpowder _jumo_
    much hot air in cold weather. "I had forgotten to
    say that Marcial, like most sailors,
    used a vocabulary consisting of the most
    pilgrims terminachos, as is customary in the
    seamen of all countries distort the native
    language to become caricature. Noting most
    of the voices used by sailors, is that corruption
    is simply the most common words, adapted to their
    temperament and snatched energetic, always
    prone to shorten all the functions of life
    and especially the language. Hearing about, I
    have found sometimes that language is
    a body that way. Marcial, as I say, turning
    the names into verbs, and these names without
    consulting with the Academy.

Also applied the vocabulary of navigation to all acts of life,
assimilating the ship with men, by a forced analogy between the
parties to it and its members.

For example, talking about the loss of his eye, said it had closed the
_portalón of estribor_ and to express a broken arm, said it had
run out of babor_ the _serviola. For him the heart, the residence of
the value and heroism, was the _pañol of pólvora_, as well as the
stomach _pañol of viscocho_. At least these phrases meant the
sailors, but there were other daughters of their own philological,
his only known and appreciated in all its value. Who could
understand what it meant _patigurbiar, chingurria_ and other ferocious
jaez same names? I think, but I assure you, that meant the first
question, and the second with sadness. The action of the
so-called drunk a thousand different ways, and among them was the
most common _ponerse the casaca_ idiots whose meaning will not find
my readers, if I explain that, having earned the dictates of
the British naval _casacones_, no doubt because his uniform, saying
_ponerse drunk by the casaca_ wanted Marcial mean flow and a common
action among its enemies. A foreign admirals called them with
outlandish names, and created by him, and translated in his
own way, focusing on similarities in sound. Nelson called the
_Señorito_, voice indicated that some consideration or respect, to
the Collingwood _tío Calambre_ sentence that he seemed accurate
English translation, to Jerwis named him as the same English, ie
_viejo zorro_, to the Calder _tío Perol_ because they found a strong
relationship between the two voices, and using a linguistic system
entirely opposite designated Villeneuve, head of the squad combined
with the nickname _Monsieur Corneta_, a name taken from a sketch
attended Marcial represented in Cadiz.

Anyway, these were the nonsense coming out of his mouth, which I shall
be obliged to avoid explanations unfortunate, to replace the usual
phrases, when referring to the talks that he remembered. Sigamos
now. Dona Francisca, making crosses, said: "Forty ships! It is
tempting to Divine Providence. Jesus, and have at least forty
thousand guns, for these enemies from killing one another. - What
is good as Mr. Cornet has provided the storage of gunpowder -
Marcial replied pointing to the heart - and are going to laugh
casacones these gentlemen. It will not be measured as the Cape St.
Vincent. - You have to take into account - my master said with
pleasure, seeing that his favorite subject - that if the admiral
had commanded Córdova tack to port to the ships and _San José_
_Mejicano_, Mr. de Jerwis would not have called _Lord Conde de San
Vicente_.

I'm sure of it, and I have data to ensure that the maneuver to port,
had emerged victorious. - Victory!

- Contemptuously exclaimed Dona Francisca -. If they can more ...
These bullies seem to want to eat the world, and as seems to
go out to sea do not have enough ribs to receive the beating of
the English. - No! - Half-man said forcefully and closing with
the threatening gesture -- . If it were not for his many tricks
and mischief! ... We always go against them in a long
soul thus with nobility, flag hoisting and clean hands. The
English are not _larguea_, and always attacked by surprise, looking
for bad water and hours of closure. This was the Strait, we have
to pay. We sailed confident because neither heretics Moors dog is
feared treachery, _cuantimás_ an English that is and how to
_civil_ Christian. But no, the attacking treason is not Christian,
but a robber.

Figúrese you, - said going to Doña Francisca for his benevolence -
which left Cadiz to assist the French squad who had taken refuge
in Algeciras, persecuted by the English.

This four years ago, and I have such _entavía_ courage that blood
emborbota me when I remember. I was in _Real Carlos_, 112 guns,
which sent Ezguerra and also carried the _San Hermenegildo_, also
of 112, the _San Fernando_ the _Argonauta_ the _San Agustín_ and
_Sabina_ frigate. Together with the French squad, who had four
ships, three frigates and a brig, left Cadiz to Algeciras for
twelve days, and as the weather was weak, here we anocheció
most tip of Ram. The night was more than a black barrel of oil, but
as the weather was good, we do not mind navigating obscure. Almost
all the crew slept: I remember that I was in the castle bow talking
with my cousin Pepe Deborah, told me that the dogs of his mother
in law, and then I saw the lights _San Hermenegildo_, sailing
on the starboard side to draft canyon. Iban other boats ahead.
_Pusque_ Thing we thought was that casacones had left Gibraltar
behind us and gave us hunting.

Not how we see it, if the lights were off and we came without our
percatáramos it? Suddenly, and _anque_ the night was very
dark, it seemed to me to see ... I have always had a _farol_ like a
bobcat ... I found a boat that passed between us and the _San
Hermenegildo_. "Débora Jose - said to my partner - or I'm watching
_pantasmas_ or have an English ship to starboard." I looked and
Deborah Joseph said: "The mast is dropping by and I fogonadura hand,
if by boat over the starboard _San Hermenegildo_. - Well, yes or no
- I said - I will tell you that the fourth official. "It had just
said, when pataplús ... _musiqueo_ the feel of a barrage that we
blew through the side. In one minute, the crew was lifted
... each to his post ... What bustles, Mrs Dona Francisca! I am
glad that you had seen to know how these things are. All jurábamos
as hell and we asked God to put a gun in each finger to answer
the attack. Ezguerra ascended the citadel and sent the shot
barrage starboard ... ¡_zapataplús_! The starboard barrage fired
away, and the little time we answered ... But at that trapisonda
not seen that with the first shot we had blown a devilish board
_comestibles_ materials (fuels meant), which fell on the ship as if
it were raining fire. To see that our ship was burning, we redoubled
rage and reloading the barrage, and another and another.

Ah, Mrs. Dona Francisca! Nice was that! ... Our commander ordered
to put on starboard approach to attack the enemy ship. Here I want
to see ... I was in my glory ... In a wink of the eye axes and
spades ready to deal ... the enemy ship we came over, which I
_encabrilló_ (me happy), the soul, because we enredaríamos soon ...
Put, put to starboard ... What Julep! Beginning to dawn: and Peñoles
be kissed, and the groups were willing, when we hear swearing on board
a Spanish vessel enemy. Then we were all stiff from fright, because
we saw that the boat that beat us was the same _San Hermenegildo_.
- Now that's a good one - said Dona Francisca showing some interest
in the story -. And how were such that a donkey ... and another
- I say to you: we did not have time to walk with palabreo. The fire
_Real Carlos_ went to _San Hermenegildo_, and then ... ¡Virgen del
Carmen, which was armed! To the boats!, Cried many. The fire was
already flush with the ras _Santa Bárbara_, and this lady is not
going to joke ... We jurábamos, shouted insults to God, the Virgin
and all the saints, because that seems to be a relief when it is full
of courage to hatch. - Jesus, Mary and Joseph!, What a horror! - I
cried ama -.

What were saved - we saved the forty Fallujah and six or seven in the
boat: they collected the second _San Hermenegildo_. Deborah Joseph
clung to a piece of stick and arrived more dead than alive to the
beaches of Morocco. - Other ... and there can be many. _apagaron
Fuegos_ two thousand men that day, including our commander Ezguerra,
Emparan and the other boat. - Válgame God - said Dona Francisca -.
Although they are well spent, for beating these games. If they were
in their houses as quietecitos God ... - Well, the cause of this
disaster - said Don Alonso, who liked to interest his wife in such
dramatic events - was the following. The English, valid for the dark
of night, ordered the ship _Soberbio_, the lightest of all they
had, turn off your lights and go between our two beautiful
boats. It did: the two rounds fired, put his gear on the
front with great alacrity, orzando while to get rid of the answer.

The _Real Carlos_ and _San Hermenegildo_, being attacked without
warning, fired, but it was beating against each other until nearly
dawn and about to be addressed, acknowledging what happened and you
had as much detail Marcial. - Oh, And how well he played the!

- said the lady -. Was good, although that is not noble people. -
What has to be - added Half Man -. So I did not want either, but
that night _dende_ ... If they are in heaven, I do not want to
go to Heaven, _manque_ me to condemn all _enternidad_ ... - and
then catch the four frigates that came from the Rio de la
Plata - said D. Marcial Alonso encouraging to continue his narrative.
- I found that too - answered the seaman - and there I left leg.
Then we also caught off guard, and as we were in time of peace,
sailed very quiet, and counting the hours we need to reach, when
suddenly ...
Moreover, they indicate an erroneous conception of the inherent
power of truth; and a marvellous lack of confidence in the
self-sustaining capacity of the Christian religion. If Christianity
cannot exist and progress among men without chaining the human mind
in bondage, stifling all research, and forbidding a critical
investigation of doctrines put forth in its name, then it must at
length become extinct. Men will and must think, reason, investigate,
on religious subjects, as well as other topics, whatever result may
follow. I cherish, however, none of these fears. The multiplicity of
denominations, and the diversity of opinions, can work no serious
injury to religion. The discussions, researches, and critical
examinations, which necessarily grow out of this state of things,
will but sift error from truth; and result, ultimately, in laying
broader and deeper the foundations of pure Christianity in human
society; bringing out its highest excellencies and beauties to the
admiration of men, and elevating it far above the poisoned arrows of
scepticism. It is the errors engrafted on Christianity, in dark and
ignorant ages, that have given the infidel all his weapons of
attack. When these errors shall at length all be detected and
expunged by candid research, and faithful investigation, the shafts
of the sceptic will fall harmless at the base of the graceful and
glorious temple of Christ's religion. In the words of John
Milton--"Though all the winds of doctrine were let loose to play
upon the earth, so truth be in the field, we do injuriously * * * to
misdoubt her strength. Let her and falsehood grapple. Who ever knew
truth put to the worse in a free and open encounter?"

What line of conduct should the young adopt towards those who differ
from them on religious doctrines?

In the first place, let it never be forgotten that others have the
same civil, moral, and religious right to differ in sentiment from
you, that you have from them. This right is recognized by our
republican government, and is sanctioned by the gospel. One of the
directions of the Saviour is, that men should "search the
Scriptures."[11] There would be no propriety in this commandment,
had not individuals the right to understand the teachings of the
Scriptures, according to their best judgment, with the light they
possess. Moreover, Protestantism allows among its first principles,
the legitimate right of individual interpretation of the Scriptures,
and private judgment in religious matters. It was for this right
that Luther and Zuinglius, Melancthon and Calvin, and all the
Reformers, contended against the arrogant assumption of the Roman
Church. That Church insisted that the people were not to understand
the Scriptures for themselves, but were bound, to receive,
unquestioned, such interpretations as the bishop or priest should
teach them. Whoever deny freedom of opinion, in regard to religion,
to all men, clearly violate the spirit of the gospel, the recognized
rights conferred by the Protestant religion, and the sanctions of
our political institutions.

[Footnote 11: John v. 39.]

Admitting then, as you must, the privilege of others to differ from
you in religious sentiment, you should not allow that difference to
be a matter of offence. It should be no disparagement in your view,
nor lessen them in your estimation. However great you may consider
the errors of your neighbors, if you are satisfied they are
_sincere_, you should respect them for their sincerity! Hypocrisy,
in every form, should be denounced. Those who profess to believe
what they do not, or to be what they are not--who assume the
Christian name when they are in fact, but bitter and narrow-minded
bigots--are only worthy to be heartily despised.

Let me caution the young, also, against a spirit of exclusiveness.
In our age and country, a religious aristocracy is no more to be
acknowledged than a political. All denominations stand on an
_equality_, in their rights and privileges, and in the estimation in
which they are to be held as public bodies. No sect can put on airs,
and assume to lord it over others, in any respect whatever, without
subjecting itself to the severest censure. Among the rights
belonging equally to all, is the Christian name. Every denomination
which receives the Scriptures as the inspired word of God, and
believes in Jesus Christ, as the Son of God and the Saviour of men,
is justly entitled to the name of _Christian_, and to be
acknowledged and treated as such. This is the only test laid down in
the New Testament, as a careful examination will satisfy the candid
mind.

A new fact for me and increased my love for sorrows that afternoon.
Who was rescued from the _Santa Ana_ not seen the young Malespina.
Finally, after searching a lot, I found it nestled in one of
the couches of the camera. Acerqueme to him and saw him very demudado;
him and could not reply. He wanted to stand and fell again breathless.
'Are you hurt! - I -: call to cure him. - It is nothing - answered
-. Will you bring me some water? "At the point I called my love.
"What is it, the wound of the hand - considering he asked the boy.
- It is something more," replied D. Rafael sadly, and pointed
to his right side near the waist. Then, as if the force used
to show his wound and said those few words were too weakened to
their nature, closed his eyes and was speechless for some movement
or time.

'Oh, this looks serious - said D. Alonso disappointed. - And
more than serious, 'said a surgeon who had gone to check. Malespina,
possessed of deep sadness to see such a state, and believing that
there was no remedy for it, not even she realized her injured and
retired to that place where he stopped his thoughts and memories.
Believing the next to die, refused to cure him. The surgeon said
that although serious, the wound was not fatal, but added that if
we arrived at Cadiz that night, to be properly assisted in land, the
life of one and the other wounded, ran great danger. The _Santa Ana_
had 21 fights in the ninety-seven dead and one hundred and forty
wounded: had exhausted the resources of the nursing shortage and
some medication completely. The misfortune of Malespina was not
alone after the rescue, and God wanted someone else dear to
me suffered the same fate.

Marcial fell wounded, while the first moments just felt pain and
depression, because it maintained its strong spirit. He soon,
however, lowering the plaice, saying he felt awful. My master
sent the surgeon to assist him, and he only said that the wound
would not have had any importance in a couple of twenty-four years:
Half-man was over sixty. Meanwhile, the ship passed through Port
_Rayo_ and speech. Álava sent that asks the frigate _Themis_ if
he thought he could come into Cadiz, and having not replied
flatly, was asked the same _Rayo_, found that nearly unscathed,
had come safely into port. Then, meeting various officials,
agreed that moving the ship commander Gardoqui, seriously wounded,
and many other sea and land officers, among whom was the boyfriend
of my Amit. D.

Alonso got Marcial was also moved, given that his age is much aggravated,
and I gave the order to accompany them as Paje or nurse, who
ordered me not a moment nor deviated from his side, until we stop
them in Cadiz Vejer or in the possession of his family. I am prepared
to obey, I tried to persuade my master that he had to be transhipped
by _Rayo_ be safer, but not even want to hear such a proposition.

"The fate - he said - has brought me to this ship, and it be until God
decides whether or not we are saved. Alava is very bad, with most
of the officers was injured, and this can provide some services. I'm
not dropping out of danger: on the contrary, we seek from the 21,
found time and desire that my presence in the squad is good. If
you arrive before me, as I hope to say that good Paca marine
is stuck in his homeland, and that I have done very well in coming
here, and I'm very glad I came and did not weigh me, no sir I am not
weigh ... On the contrary ... Tell him to be happy when I see
and that I am sure my colleagues would have missed had it not been
less ... What was missing? Do not you think that you did well
to come - Well, it is clear: it certainly is - I replied trying
to calm his agitation, which was so great that it is not allowed
to see the inconvenience of consulting a miserable Paje very serious
issue. - I see you're a reasonable person - added feeling comforted
with my approval -; see you high and patriotic view ...

Paca but does not see things on the side of his selfishness, and as
a genius is so rare, as it has gotten into his head that the brackets
and the guns are useless, I can not understand .. .

Anyway ... I know I will get angry when I come back, then ... as
we have not won, will say so and so ... fool me again ... quia
but ... I would not if I will. How about you? Is it not true that I
should not make the case - I think - I answered -. USIA has done
very well to come this test is a brave Marine. - Then go to these
reasons Paca, and see what you replied - he replied increasingly
agitated -. Anyway, tell him I'm good and healthy and that my presence
here has been very necessary. The truth is that in the rescue
of _Santa Ana_ main I have taken part. If I had not said those
guns as well, who knows, who knows ...

And what think you? You can still do something more, you may
still be that if the wind is favorable to us, we rescued a
couple of ships tomorrow ... Yes, sir ... Here I am pondering a plan
... We'll see, we'll see ... So goodbye, Gabrielillo. Be careful
what you tell Paca. - No, I did not forget. You know that if not
for the dam is not USIA _Santa Ana_, and also know they may
perhaps bring us to Cadiz two dozen ships. - Two dozens, no,
man - he said -, that is much. Two ships, or perhaps three. Anyway,
I think I've done very well in coming to the squad. She will be angry
and mad when I come back again, but ... I think, I repeat, I've
done very well in boats.

"Having said that departed from me. An instant later saw him
sitting in a corner of the camera. I was praying, and moving accounts
of the rosary with great dissimulation, because I did not want to see
addressed in such a devout exercise. I assumed by his last words that
my brain had lost the love, and seeing me, I pray by the weakness
of his spirit, which had been in vain striven to overcome the old
tired and unable to sustain the fight, went to God for mercy.

Doña Francisca was right. My love for many years, serving not only to
pray. As we agreed ferry. D. Rafael Marcial and, like other
officers wounded, were lowered into the arms of one of the boats,
with a lot of work for hardy sailors. Strong waves hampered
much this operation, but the order was made, and both boats headed
_Rayo_. The voyage of a vessel to another was bad, but at last,
although there were times when I seemed that the boat was going
to disappear forever, we arrived at the side of _Rayo_, and much
work up the scale.

-XV - "We left Guatemala to enter Guatepeor - Marcial said when he
was on deck -. But where demand does not require master mariner.
In this he was sentenced by _Rayo_ bad name. He said to
enter into Cadiz before midnight, and I say that is not. Let
see. - What do you say, Marcial, which it will - I asked with great
eagerness. - You, Mr. Gabrielito not understand this. - Is
that when my lord D. Alonso and officers _Santa Ana_ believe _Rayo_
come tonight, you have to enter by force. They say that, we have
known. - And you do not know, _sardiniya_ that these gentlemen
are stern _candilean_ (wrong) more easily than we seafarers
combos. If not, here is the head of the entire squad, _Mr. Corneta_,
to load the devil with him. You see as much or has not been well
_de mandar idea_ for action. Do you think that if you _Mr.

Corneta_ would have done what I said the battle was lost - And
you think it will Cadiz - I say that this ship is heavier than the
lead, and treacherous. Has bad footing, bad government and it appears
to be lame, and handed eyed like me, because if you cast the rod for
here, he goes there. "Indeed, the _Rayo_, according to general
opinion, was a fishing boat bad conditions . But despite this and
his advanced age, bordering on the fifty-six years, as it was in good
condition, did not seem to run any danger, because if the storm
was increasing, it was near the port. Anyway, it was not logical to
assume that ran the greatest danger _Santa Ana_, desarbolado,
rudderless, and forced to march to a frigate towing?

Marcial was put in the plaice, and Malespina in the chamber. When
I left there with the other officers down, I heard a voice that I
recognized, but the point I could not realize the person to whom
it belonged. Acerqueme group where that came roaring speech, which
dominated the other voices, and I was astonished, recognizing at the
same D. José María Malespina in person. I ran to tell him that his
son was, suspended and a good father of lies that the counting was
to come next to the injured couple.

Great was his joy found alive, having left Cadiz because he eagerly
devoured, and I wanted her to know all costs. "That is nothing to
you - said hugging her son - a mere scratch. You're not used to feel
wounded, you're a lady, Rafael. Oh, if when the war had been in the
Roussillon age to go there with me, you would have seen the good.
They themselves were injured. You know that one bullet entered my
forearm, went to the shoulder, he turned across the back, and came
out by the waist. Oh, what hurt so unique!, But the sound was
three days, sending artillery in the attack Bellegarde. "Then
he explained the reason for his presence on board of _Rayo_, like
this:" The night we found 21 Cadiz in the success of combat. I
said, gentlemen, not if I wanted to do when I spoke of reforms in
the artillery, and here are the results. Well: as I knew and I
learned that Gravina had retreated with a few ships, I went to see
if they came from the _San Juan_, where were you, but I was told
that he had been arrested. Can not you paint my anxiety: I have no
doubt about your death, I knew mostly from the large number of
casualties that occurred on your ship. But I am a man who took
things to the end, and knowing that he had ordered the departure
of some ships in order to collect the dismantled and rescue the
prisoners, I determined to leave early doubts, boats in one. I
explained my intention to Solano, and then to major general of the
squad, my old friend Escaño and not let me come without scruple.
Aboard the _Rayo_, where I embarked this morning, I asked for
you, for the _San Juan_, but said nothing consoling me, but on the
contrary, that Churruca had died, and his ship after fight with
glory, had fallen held by the enemy.

¡Figúrate what my anxiety! How far was today when we rescued the
_Santa Ana_, that you found it! To find out, would have redoubled
my efforts in the provisions which gave permission for these gentlemen,
and the ship would have been free of Álava in two minutes. "The
officers around him with sarcasm mirábanle braggart hearing the final
concept D. José María.

By their laughter and whisper realized that all day had
been fun with the lies of that good man who did not put a stop
to his voluble tongue, even in the most critical and painful.
The surgeon said that it hurt to leave standing and not hold
a conversation in his presence, especially if it was the last
disaster. D. José María, who heard this, said that on the contrary,
should revive the spirit of the patient with the conversation. "In
the war of Roussillon, the seriously injured (and I was several
times) Mandab the soldiers dancing and tocasen guitar
in nursing, and I am sure that this treatment cured sooner than
we all first aid kits and plasters. - Well, in the wars of the
French Republic - said an official who wanted to confuse Andalusian
D.

Jose Maria - was established in the ambulance of the wounded was a
full corps de ballet and opera company, and I saved the doctors
and apothecaries, as with a pair of arias and two dozen braided in
sixth All are like new. - Stop there! - exclaimed Malespina -.
That's grid, alicia. How can music and dance to heal the wounds?
- You said it .-- Yes, but that has not happened more than once,
nor is it easy to re-pass. Is it likely to return to a war like the
Roussillon, the bloodiest, the most skilful, the most strategic that
has seen the world from Epaminondas? Is not clear, because there
everything was extraordinary, and I can attest to this, since the
presence _Introito_ until _Ite Mass est_.

A war that I owe my knowledge of the artillery, have you not heard
of me? I am sure that I know their names. Well you know we
bring in the head a great project, and that if one day become
reality, no disaster will happen like this 21. Yes, gentlemen -
looking with added severity and adequacy of three or four
officers who heard it - is necessary to do something for the motherland;
urge to invent something amazing that in a periquete us back and lost
everything to ensure our marine the victory for ever amen. - Well,
Mr. D. Jose Maria - one official said -; tell us what your
invention .-- Well, now I take care of how to build guns to 300. -
Man of 300! - The official fuss cried with laughter and mockery
-. The biggest we have on board are 36. - These are toys for kids.
Figúrese you would do such destruction of 300 pieces firing
squad on the enemy - said Malespina -. But what the hell is this -
no added grip for rolling on the floor because of _Rayo_ swing
were such that one could hardly be right. - The gale Arreciado and
I think tonight does not go into Cadiz ' said a retired officer.

They were just two, and continued his peroration liar in these
terms: "The first thing to do was build boats from 95 to 100 yards
long. - Snails! Are you aware that the regular lanchita it -
an official said -. ¡Hundred yards! The _Trinidad_ that holy glory
has had seventies, and all too long. You know that viraba wrong,
and that all maneuvers made it very hard. - I see you are scared
by little, alicia - continued Malespina -. What is 100 rods?
Even much larger ships could be built. And I have to warn you
that I built of iron. - Iron! - Cried the two listeners unable
to contain laughter. - Iron, yes. Why do not you know ventura science
of hydrostatic? According to her, I would build an iron ship of 7,000
tons. - And the _Trinidad_ was only 4000! - One official said -
which seemed excessive. But you do not understand that this move
would require a massive rigging so colossal that no human force can
maneuver in it? - Bicoca! ... Oh, Mr. Marine, and who told you that
I would be very awkward to move the ship through the wind? You do not
know me. If you knew that here I have an idea ... But I do not
want to explain to you, because I do not understand. "At this point
of his talk, D. Jose Maria was so grave that was four feet.

But neither of these closed beak. Marchóse other officers, and was
only one, which had to continue to sustain the conversation.
"What swings? - Continued the old saying -. There seems but we are
going to crash against the shore ... Well: as I said, I move that
great mass of my invention by means of ... Do not guess what you ...
By means of steam. This will build a unique machine, where steam,
compressed and expanded alternately in two cylinders, put some wheels
in motion ... The officer then ...». did not want to hear more,
and although he had no position on the ship or on duty, being the
collected went to help their colleagues, quite busy with the growing
storm. Malespina was alone with me, and then I thought it was going
to shut up if not try people on purpose to sustain the conversation.
But my misfortune that he wanted to take me more than I was worth,
and started me on the following terms: "You understand what I mean?
Seven thousand tons, steam, two wheels ... then. - Yes, sir, I
understand - I replied to see if they remained silent, as neither had
heard of humor, nor the violent balances of the ship, announcing a
great danger, had the courage to speak about the enlargement of the
marina. - I see you know me and takes care of my invention - he
continued -. And understand that the ship would imagine that
would be invincible, the same attack to defend. He would have
defeated with only four or five shots thirty English ships. -
But the guns they would not harm him too - I said timidly, arguing
rather that courtesy because the issue for me. - Oh !

       The observation of you, alicia is atinadísima, and proves that it
understands and appreciates the great inventions.

To avoid the effect of enemy artillery, I forraría my boat with thick
steel plates, ie you would a shell, like those worn by ancient
warriors. With this method, it could attack without the enemy
projectiles do more in their side effect that would make a barrage
of balls of bread thrown by the hand of a child. It is a
wonderful idea which I had. Figúrese you that our nation has two
or three of these boats. What would stop the English squad,
with all its Nelson and Collingwood - But where these vessels could
do here - I said with vivacity, knowing the strength of my argument
- the British would also and then the proportions of the struggle
would be the same. "D. José María allele was like with this reason
and for a moment was puzzled, not knowing what to say, but his
inexhaustible vein soon suggest new ideas, and responded with a bad
mood: 'Who has told you, mozalbete daring, I would be able to disclose
my secret? The vessels are built with the utmost secrecy and without
saying Palotada anyone. Suppose that a new war going on. We led the
British, and I said: 'Yes, sir, we will soon, we batiremos. Went
to sea the ships routine started the fight, and maybe cátate
appearing in the waters of the fight two or three of these
iron monsters, vomiting smoke and marching here and there, without
heeding wind get where they want, make chips with the thrust
of his sharp nose against the boats, and a pair of cannon ...
figúrese you, all in just one quarter of an hour. "I did not make
objections, because the idea of running a great risk prevented me
fill the mind with thoughts contrary to those of the critical
situation.

Not again remember more formidable vessel of imagination, until
thirty years later I learned the application of steam to navigation,
and even more so, when after half a century saw our glorious frigate
_Numancia_ the realization of finished projects outlandish liar
Trafalgar.

Half a century later I remembered D. José María Malespina, and said:
"It appears that the extravagant lie devised by a madman or a
liar become realities beautiful over time." Since I saw this match,
not condemn absolutely no utopia, and all liars I appear men of
genius. I left D. José María to see what was happening, and when I
put the foot out of the camera, I learned of the compromised
situation that had befallen the _Rayo_. The storm not only
prevented the entry into Cadiz, but he drove toward the coast,
where encallaría insurance, crashing against the rocks. It was bad
luck _Santa Ana_, we had left, could not be worse than ours. I
watched with eagerness the faces of officers and sailors, to see if
that was any indication of hope, but unfortunately for me, all I saw
signs of great discouragement.
That a religious life is pleasant, is evident from the nature of
religion itself.

"Religion is a principle of _spiritual life_ in the soul. Now all
the exercises and acts of vitality are agreeable. To see, to hear,
to taste, to walk, are all agreeable, because they are the voluntary
energies of inward life. So religion, in all its duties, is the
exercise of a living principle in the soul: it is a new spiritual
existence. Piety is a spiritual _taste_. Hence it is said, 'If so be
ye have _tasted_ that the Lord is gracious.' No matter what the
object of a taste is, the exercises of it are always agreeable. The
painter goes with delight to his picture; the musician to his
instrument; the sculptor to his bust; because they have a _taste_
for these pursuits. The same feeling of delight attends the
Christian to the exercises of godliness: and this is his language,
'It is a good thing to give thanks, and to draw near to God. O how I
love thy law! it is sweeter to my taste than honey. How amiable are
thy tabernacles.' Religion, where it is real, is the natural element
of a Christian; and every creature rejoices in its own appropriate
sphere. If you consider true piety with disgust, as a hard,
unnatural, involuntary thing, you are totally ignorant of its
nature, entirely destitute of its influence, and no wonder you
cannot attach to it the idea of pleasure: but viewing it as it ought
to be viewed, in the light of a new nature, you will perceive that
it admits of most exalted delight.

"3. Consider the miseries which it prevents.

"It does not, it is true, prevent sickness, poverty, or misfortune:
it does not fence off from the wilderness of this world, a mystic
enclosure, within which the ills of life never intrude. No; these
things happen to all alike; but how small a portion of human
wretchedness flows from these sources, compared with that which
arises from the dispositions of the heart. 'The mind is its own
place, can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven.' Men carry the
springs of their happiness or misery in their own bosom. Hence it is
said of the wicked, 'that they are like the troubled sea which
cannot rest, which is never at peace, but continually casting up
mire and dirt.' In contrast with which, it is affirmed that 'the
work of righteousness is peace; and that the good man shall be
satisfied from himself.' Would you behold the misery entailed by
_pride_, look at Haman; by _covetousness_, look at Ahab; by
_malice_, look at Cain; by _profaneness_ and _sensuality_, united
with the forebodings of a guilty conscience, look at Belshazzar; by
_envy_, and a consciousness of being rejected of God, look at Saul;
by _revenge_, look at Herodias writhing beneath the accusations of
John, and thirsting for his blood; by _apostasy_, look at Judas.
Religion would have prevented all this, and it will prevent similar
misery in you. Hearken to the confessions of the outcast in the land
of his banishment; of the felon in his irons, and in his dungeon; of
the prostitute expiring upon her bed of straw; of the malefactor at
the gallows--'Wretched creature that I am, abhorred of men, accursed
of God! To what have my crimes brought me!' Religion prevents all
this: all that wretchedness which is the result of crime, is cut off
by the influence of genuine piety. Misery prevented is happiness
gained.

"4. Consider the consolations it imparts.

"Our world has been called, in the language of poetry, a vale of
tears, and human life a bubble, raised from those tears, and
inflated by sighs, which, after floating a little while, decked with
a few gaudy colors, is touched by the hand of death, and dissolves.
Poverty, disease, misfortune, unkindness, inconstancy, death, all
assail the travellers as they journey onward to eternity through
this gloomy valley; and what is to comfort them but _religion_?

"The consolations of religion are neither few nor small; they arise
in part from those things which we have already mentioned in this
chapter; _i.e._ from the exercise of the understanding on the
revealed truths of God's word, from the impulses of the spiritual
life within us, and from a reflection upon our spiritual privileges;
but there are some others, which, though partially implied in these
things, deserve a special enumeration and distinct consideration.

"_A good conscience_, which the wise man says is a perpetual feast,
sustains a high place amongst the comforts of genuine piety. It is
unquestionably true, that a man's happiness is in the keeping of his
conscience; all the sources of his felicity are under the command of
this faculty. 'A wounded spirit who can bear?' A troubled conscience
converts a paradise into a hell, for it is the flame of hell kindled
on earth; but a quiet conscience would illuminate the horrors of the
deepest dungeon with the beams of heavenly day; the former has often
rendered men like tormented fiends amidst an elysium of delights,
while the latter has taught the songs of cherubim to martyrs in the
prison or the flames.

"In addition to this, religion comforts the mind, with the assurance
of an all-wise, all-pervading Providence, so minute in its
superintendence and control, that not a sparrow falls to the ground
without the knowledge of our heavenly Father: a superintendence
which is excluded from no point of space, no moment of time, and
overlooks not the meanest creature in existence. Nor is this all;
for the Word of God assures the believer that 'all things work
together for good to them that love God, who are the called
according to his purpose.' Nothing that imagination could conceive,
is more truly consolatory than this, to be assured that all things,
however painful at the time, not excepting the failure of our
favorite schemes, the disappointment of our fondest hopes, the loss
of our dearest comforts, shall be overruled by infinite wisdom for
the promotion of our ultimate good. This is a spring of comfort
whose waters never fail.

"Religion consoles also by making manifest some of the benefits of
affliction, even at the time it is endured. It crucifies the world,
mortifies sin, quickens prayer, extracts the balmy sweets of the
promises, endears the Saviour; and, to crown all, it directs the
mind to that glorious state, where the days of our mourning shall be
ended: that happy country where God shall wipe every tear from our
eyes, and there shall be no more sorrow or crying. Nothing so
composes the mind, and helps it to bear the load of trouble which
God may lay upon it, as the near prospect of its termination.
The day after our arrival my master received a visit from a
Marine brigadier, a former friend, whose face does not ever forget,
despite not having seen more than one occasion. He was a man of
forty-five years of gentle and beautiful face with such an
expression of sadness, it was impossible to see without feeling
irresistible inclination to love him. Did not wear wig, blond and
abundant hair, no claws martyred by the hairdresser to take the form
of pigeon-wing, was collected with a dropout in a large
collection, and were inundated with less dust in the art that the
presumption of its own the time required.

They were big and blue eyes, his nose very fine, perfect form and a
little long, but it does afeara rather seemed to ennoble her
expressive face. His beard, neatly shaved, was pointed, thus increasing
the overall melancholy of his face oval, indicating more sensitivity
to energy.

This noble continent was highlighted by a civility in manners, by
a serious cortesanía that idea you can not be stretched by the
fatuity of the gentlemen of the day, nor the elegance of our golden
mobile youth.

       His body was small, thin and sickly.

More than a warrior, a man appeared to be studying, with his
forehead, which certainly locked high and delicate thoughts, did not
seem the most appropriate to face the horrors of battle. His weak
constitution, which no doubt contained a privileged mind, seemed
to succumb to the first shock shocked. And yet, as I learned later,
the man had so much heart and intelligence. Was Churruca. The
uniform of the hero proves, without being old or frayed, a few
years of honorable service. Then when I heard him say, in fact tone
without complaint, that the Government should pay nine, I explained
that deterioration.

My master asked him about his wife, and his answer showed that he had
married shortly before, for which reason it consistent, it seems
quite outrageous that he was sent to fight in so happy days.
He spoke after his boat, _San Juan Nepomuceno_ , which showed
the same affection that his young wife, because he said he had
composed and arranged to your liking, by special privilege,
making it one of the first ships of the Spanish navy. They spoke
after a regular item in those days, whether or not he was leaving
the squad came out and the sea is largely expressed in these
words, the substance stored in memory, and then with historical
data and I was able to restore the possible correctness: "The French
admiral -- Churruca said - not knowing what decision to take, and
wanting to do something that you forget his mistakes, has been,
since we are here, in favor of leaving in search of the English.

On October 8 wrote to Gravina, saying he wanted to hold a board
_Bucentauro_ a war council to decide what was best. Indeed, the
council went Gravina, walking Lieutenant General Álava, a squadron
of the chiefs and Escaño Cisneros, the brigadier Galiano and me.
Of the French squad were admirals Duman and Magon, and ship captains
Cosmao, Maistral, Villiegris and Prigny. "Villeneuve Having shown
the desire to leave all Spaniards opposed. The discussion was very
lively and heated, and crossed with Alcalá Galiano Admiral Magon
quite harsh words, resulting in a haul of honor before it put them
in peace. Villeneuve much displeased with our opposition, and
in the heat of the discussion said phrases decomposed to Gravina
answered the strongest ...

It is curious efforts of these gentlemen to go to sea in search of a
powerful enemy, when in the battle of Finisterre we left, taking
the chance to win if you will help us in time. There are other
reasons that I explained the council, and that the station is
moving, the most advantageous position for us is to remain at bay,
forcing a deadlock that can not resist, mostly to block if Tolón and
Cartagena. We must confess with sorrow the superiority of the
English navy, for the perfection of weapons, for the excellent
strength of their vessels, and especially by operating the unit
with their squads.

We, people in much less skilled, armed and commanded by an imperfect
boss unhappy at all, we may, however, make war on the defensive
within the bay. But it will be necessary to comply, according
to the blind submission of the Court of Madrid, and marine
vessels and put at the mercy of the plans of Bonaparte, that
no change has given us in this worthy of a head slavery so many
sacrifices.

Leave, if Villeneuve is working, but if the results are disastrous,
is hereby appropriated to download our opposition that we have made
the foolish project of the head of the squad combined. Villeneuve
has surrendered to despair, his master had said harsh things, and
the news that he will be relieved to induce him to commit the
greatest follies, hoping one day regain its lost reputation for
victory or death " . So there was the friend of my master. His
words made big impression on me, since being a child, I gave great
interest to those events, and then reading the same story
that I witnessed, I have helped my memory with real data, and I can
tell quite accurately. Churruca When he left, Mrs. Flora and
my master made him high praise, especially praising his
expedition to South America, to make a map of those seas. According
to them I heard, the merits of Churruca as wise and as a seaman
were so many that even Napoleon made him a precious gift and VIP.
But let us return to the marine and Doña Flora. After two days
of being there I noticed a phenomenon about which I disliked, and
was the cousin of my clothes started to love me, that is, that I
found her to be Room for Paje . Did not cease to make any kind
of touching, and knowing that I was going to the squadron, regretted
it, vowing that it would be a shame to lose an arm, leg or some
other no less important part of my person, if not lost life.

That outraged me unpatriotic compassion, and even believe I said
some words to express that in the warrior ardor was inflamed. My
saber made to grace the old, and gave me a thousand sweets to remove
bad mood. The next day forced me to clean, discreet animal, speaking
as a theologian and woke us all morning, yelling: _perro
English, inglés_ dog. Then I took to church, making loading the
sidewalk, and the church did not cease to turn the head to see if I
was there. Then I did attend his toilet, with whose operation I
was shocked, watching the catafalque of curls and bows to the barber
armed himself in his head. Noting the indiscreet stupor with which I
contemplate the ability of the teacher, the real architect of the
head, Doña Flora laughed a lot and told me that instead of
thinking of going to the squad should stay with her for her Paje,
adding that learn to be combed, and with the job of master
barber could earn a living and be a real character. I am not
seduced such propositions, and I told him with some rudeness
that I wanted to be soldier barber. This pleased him, and gave him
the comb with the things patriotic and military stepped up their
affection towards me. While there I was treated with care, I confess
that I carried no power over such Doña Flora, and that drained
their preferred fineness of my rude pescozones angry Dona Francisca.
It was natural: its unintended love their dengue, our insistence on
calling my company, saying that he loved to talk and my person, I
follow my master prevented at their visits to board. He came
in so sweet an occupation servant of her cousin, and myself,
without the freedom to run around Cadiz, as would have liked me bored
at home, Doña parrot company Flora and the gentlemen who were there
for the afternoon to say whether or not to leave the squad, and so
fewer hands, but more frivolous. My disgust came to despair when I
came home that Marcial and that he was my master on board,
but definitely not to embark; and when this happened, and when my
troubled soul caressed the still weak hope of being part of that
issue, Mrs. Flora strove to take a ride to the mall and also to
pray eve Carmen. I was unbearable, especially as I dreamed of putting
on a brave performance proyectillo, which consisted of going to
visit one of their own ships, led by a sailor known that he hoped
to find in the spring. I went out with the old, and while
passing through the wall deteníame to see the boats, but could not
deliver me to the delights of this show, by having to answer the
thousand questions Doña Flora, which I was dizzy. During the
ride he was joined by some young lady. Encopetados seemed well,
and people were in fashion in Cadiz, all very discreet and elegant.
One of them was a poet, or rather, did all verses, although ill,
and I think I heard them speak in a certain Academy that met for
their shot stanzas, entertainment that did not harm anyone. As I
watched everything I looked at the strange figure of the men in
his effeminate gestures and, above all, in their costumes, which
seemed extravagantísimos. There were not many people dressed in
that manner in Cadiz, and after thinking about the difference
between those who had regular harness and the people I had
ever seen, I realized that was that they wore to the Spanish, and
friends Dona Flora fashion according to the Madrid and Paris. What
first caught my eye was the strangeness of their sticks, which were
twisted around sticks and gruesísimos knots. They were not looked
beard because tapaba tie, a kind of shawl, which give several
laps around the neck and extending to the lips, was a kind of basket,
tray, or rather Bacia resting in the face. The hairstyle was a
tricky disorder, and that comb, it looked like it had been seasoned
with a broom, the tips of the hat I touched the shoulders, the Casaca
of enormous size, almost sweeping the floor with their skirts, boots
ended in a point, from the pockets of his waistcoat hung a multitude
of stamps and trinkets, their calzones are listed attacking the knee
with a huge loop, and that such figures were complete mamarrachos,
all wearing a lens that during the conversation about repeated
Sometimes the right eye, closing the claim, although entrambos have
very good eyes. "The conversation was about those characters out
of the squad, alternating with this relationship I do not know
how to dance or party much praised, one of them subject to high
praise for how well they did with their light trenzas legs dancing
the gavotte. Having chatted a lot, went to church on Doña Flora del
Carmen and there, pulling everyone her rosary, praying to be a pelaban
good space of time, and I applied some of them bordering on the
crown coscorrón one, because instead of so devoutly pray like them,
give too much attention to two flies that hover around curl hairstyle
climax Doña Flora. We left after having heard a sermon annoying,
they celebrated as a masterpiece; walk again, continued to talk more
deeply, because we were joined by some ladies wearing the same
style, and all was armed so noisy algazara of gallantry, phrases
and subtleties, mixed with some dull verse, I can not remember them.
And while my dear master martial and tried to fix a date and time to
move permanently to board! And I was to stay above ground, subject
to the whims of that old to me with your dull bland honey! ¿Believe
that you insisted that that night was to stay forever at your
service? ¿Believe that you said that she loved me and gave me some
proof as affectionate hugs and kisses, ordering it not to tell
anyone? It's horrible contradictions of life!, I thought to myself
how it would have been happier if I had my Amita treated in this way.
I embarrassed to most, I told him I wanted to go to the squad, and
when I might want to return at will, but if not let me do my desire,
so much so aborrecería and stretched out his arms to express
an amount very large loathing. Then came unexpectedly as my
master, I tried the arrival time to achieve my goals through a
boot oratory, he had carefully prepared, I knelt before him, saying
in the most pathetic tone that if I am carrying, I would cast
desperate to sea. My master laughed at the occurrence, his
cousin, mimes doing with his mouth, pretended to some hilarity
afeaba face amojamado, and consented to the order. ANGUAGES thousand
sweets to comiese on board, who asked me to shy away from places of
danger, and did not say a word against my shipment, which was
verified the next morning really early.

IX-October was the month, and 18 the day. This date I have no
doubt, because the next day left the squad. We got up early and
went to the wharf, where a waiting boat that led us on board.
Figúrense you what my amazement, what I wonder!, My enthusiasm,
my disposition, when I was about _Santísima Trinidad_, the largest
boat world, this wooden fortress, which was seen by far is in my
imagination as a factory portentous, supernatural, unique monster
worthy of the majesty of the seas. When our boat passed close to a
ship, I looked at some religious awe, admiration to see such large
hooves that seemed so little from the wall, at other times seemed
more guys what my imagination had wrought. The restless excitement
possessed me that I was exposed to falling into water with rapture
when contemplating a figurehead from the bow, just another object
that fascinated me any attention. At last we arrived at _Trinidad_.
As we approached, the forms of that colossus iban increasing, and
when the boat was on the side, confused in the area of sea
where it was planned, in which black and horrible glass, the shadow
of the ship, sank when I saw how still in the hull hitting the water
gently to the dark side, lift the eye and when I saw the three
rows of guns threatening their mouths hovering by the doors, my
enthusiasm was cut into fear, púseme pale, ran out and grabbed the
arm movement my master. But when we went up and I found myself
on deck, I widened the heart. The graceful and high rigging, animation
of the fortress, the view of the sky and the bay, the admirable
order of all objects occupying the cover from coys [4] posts in a
row on the play dead, to winches, pumps, hoses , hatches, and the
variety of uniforms, all in order, so I stayed, for a while I was
absorbed in contemplation of such a beautiful machine, without
remembering anything else. [Note 4: "coisa" in the original (N.
E.)]

The present can not take care of those magnificent ships, or less
than _Santísima Trinidad_ by poor prints that have been represented.
Nor anything resembling a ship warriors of today, covered with
its heavy iron harness, long, monotonous black and highly visible
accidents in its vast area, so I found some huge floating
coffins. Created by a positivist era, and appropriate to the
science of nautical and military these days, with the steam
that has canceled the maneuvers, fiando the success of combat power
and thrust of the ships, the boats of today are mere machines
of war, while at that time were the same warrior, armed with all
weapons of attack and defense, but relying mainly on his skill
and courage. I note that I respect, I have always had the habit
of linking to an extreme exaggeration, ideas pictures, things
with people, even in the most inasociables categories. Displaying
later called Gothic cathedrals of our Castile and Flanders, and
noting how impressive your majesty highlights factory complex and
subtle taste among modern buildings, erected by the utility, such
as banks, hospitals and barracks, no unless I could bring to mind
the various classes of ships that I've seen in my long life, and I
compared the old Gothic cathedrals.

Form, which extends upward, and the predominance of vertical lines
on the horizontal; some inexplicable idealism, some historical and
religious at the same time, mixed with the appearance of lines and
colors of the game that combines your whim sun have given this
bizarre association, which I explained by traces of romance in the
spirit leaving the impressions of childhood.

_Santísima Trinidad_ The ship was one of four bridges.

    The largest of the world were of three. That colossus, built
    in Havana, with the richest woods Cuba in 1769 counted
    thirty-six years of honorable service. Was 220 feet (61
    meters) in length, ie stern to bow, 58 foot beam (width), and
    strut 28 (height from the keel to the deck), so unusual
    that there was no vessel of the world .

His powerful frame, which was a real forest, supported four
floors. At the sides, which were very strong wooden walls,
were built to open holes 116 when it renovated, nice in 1796, it
opened 130 gunships and again in 1805, was on their side, when I
saw him, 140 fire hydrants, including cannons and carrion.
And in the same degree that this sacred relationship is
neglected, and its obligations disregarded, in any nation, do we
find woman degraded, and ignorance, barbarism, sensuality and vice,
in every shape, prevailing and preying on the vitals of society.

In view of these considerations, it assuredly cannot be deemed
improper, in addressing the young, to call their especial attention
to a subject so interesting as Marriage, and one so vitally
connected with all that is valuable and sacred. Indeed any series
of discourses designed to counsel them, which should omit this
all-important topic, would seem to be deficient in one of the first
essentials of salutary admonition.

In presenting this subject to the consideration of the youthful,
I would admonish them against thoughtless engagements, and hasty
marriages. A heedlessness in these matters, is fraught with
dangerous consequences. Matrimony is not to be viewed as a mere
joke, or frolic, to be engaged in at any moment, without forethought
or preparation. It is the first great step, the most momentous
event, in the life of a young couple. Their position, their
circumstances, their habits, their manner of occupying time, their
prospects, all undergo an almost total change at this important era.
It will be to them a source of prosperity, of peace, of the highest
enjoyments, or of adversity, misfortune, wrangling, and bitter
wretchedness--as they do, or do not, exercise discretion and
judgment in forming the connection. No thoughtful young man, no
prudent young woman, will enter into an engagement of marriage, much
less consummate the act, without viewing it in all its bearings.
They will maturely weigh the consequences which follow, and
seriously reflect upon the new scenes, duties, responsibilities, and
labors, to which it leads.

Since then I served as a consolation to see that the faces of all
those people showed fear of a forthcoming death. Were sad and quiet,
supporting with the severity of the penalty expired and the embarrassment
of being prisoners. Also noticed a detail that caught my attention,
was that British officers who were guarding the ship was not far
from complacent, and as kind as they played the same position
aboard _Trinidad_. On the contrary, were those of the knights
_Santa Ana_ some very unpleasant and fosca and mortified to our
excess, exaggerating their own authority and making repairs to any
great impertinence.

This seemed to upset a lot of the crew captive, especially the
sailors, and until I found alarming warning whispers, that would
not have been very reassuring for the British if they had heard.
Otherwise, I will not cover incidents of navigation of that night,
if you can call navigation to roam the venture, at the mercy of
the waves, without sail or rudder. I do not want then to annoy
my readers repeating facts already witnessed aboard _Trinidad_,
and switching to entirely new and tell others that will surprise
you as much as I surprised myself. I had lost my passion to walk
through the palace and combos bow, and so, since I found myself
aboard _Santa Ana_, I seek refuge in love with my camera where I
could relax a little and feed, as both were very needy. There was,
however, many wounded who needed healing, and this occupation,
very pleasant for me, I could not sleep all that overwhelmed my
body demanded. Hallábame busy making D. A venda Alonso in the arm
when I felt that a supportive hand on my shoulder, I turned and
faced with a couple high, smooth Luengo capote in blue, and soon,
as is often the case, he acknowledged, but space for contemplating
carefully a few seconds, I launched an exclamation of surprise was
the young D. Rafael Malespina, my boyfriend Amit. Abrazole D.

Alonso lovingly, and he sat next to us. He was wounded in one hand,
and so pale by fatigue and loss of blood, that he demacración face
completely disfigured. His presence produced sensations in my mind
very rare, and all I have to confess, though some of them do
little for me. At some point I experienced joy at seeing a
person who had known of the horror tackle left unscathed, a moment
later, the ancient hatred that woke subject inspired me in my chest
and back pain that mortified asleep after a period of relief.
With shame I confess: I felt some pity for him unharmed, but also
tell me suspect that this sentence was a momentary, fleeting
feeling like lightning, real lightning black obscureció that my soul,
or better, slight eclipse of the light my conscience, which was
soon shine with stunning clarity. perverse part of my individual
took me over an instant, I knew in an instant kill that off too,
trapped in the depths of my being.

    Can they all say the same? After
     this fight I saw moral Malespina it
     was alive with joy and shame
     because he was injured and I still remember with pride that I made
efforts to show these feelings.

Amita Poor me! How big was to be his anguish at the time! My heart
is always filled concluded goodness, I had run Vejer saying:
"Miss Rosa, you Rafael is good and healthy". Malespina The poor
man had been transported to _Santa Ana_ from _Nepomuceno_, a ship
seized as well, where Such was the number of wounded, which was
necessary, he said, spread to destroy all non-abandonment. As
father and son changed the initial greetings, devoting a few words
to the absent families, the conversation fell on the battle: my
master what had happened in the _Santísima Trinidad_, then
added: "But nobody tells me where is fixed point Gravina . Has
fallen prisoner, or retired to Cadiz - General - answered Malespina
- argued against a horrific fire _Defiance_ and _Revenge_. He
helped the _Neptune_, French, and _San Ildefonso_ and _San
Justo_ our, but the forces of the enemy is doubled with the help
of _Dreadnoutgh_ of _Thunderer_ and _Poliphemus_, after which
resistance was impossible.

_Príncipe Of being the Asturias_ with all the rigging cut, not sticks,
shot dead, having fallen and injured the general and major general
Gravina Escaño, decided to abandon the fight, because any resistance
was senseless and the battle was lost. In one remaining aloft Gravina
put the sign of withdrawal, and accompanied by _San Justo_
The _San Leandro_, the _Montañés_, the _Indomptable_, the _Neptune_
and _Argonauta_, went to Cadiz, with the penalty of being unable
to rescue the _San Ildefonso_ , which has been held by the enemy.
- Tell you what happened in _Nepomuceno_ - said my master with the
greatest interest -.

I still can hardly believe that Churruca died, and although they
all lead to a certain thing, I have the belief that man is God to
be alive somewhere. "Malespina said that unfortunately he had
witnessed the death of Churruca and promised to tell the time.
They formed a circle around him some of the officers and I, most
curious of them, I was all ears in order not to lose a syllable.
"Since we left Cadiz - said Malespina - Churruca had a
presentiment of this great disaster. He had felt the way forward,
because he knew the inferiority of our forces, and little confidence
in the intelligence chief Villeneuve. All his predictions have
come true all, until his death, it is clear that on this, was not
sure how to achieve victory. 19 Apodaca told his brother: "Rather
than pay my ship, I have to fly or jump-founder. This is
the duty of serving the King and the fatherland. " The same day
he wrote to a friend, saying: "If you come to know that my ship has
been taken prisoner, say I died." We knew the sadness of his countenance
grave providing a disastrous outcome. I believe that this
certainty and the impossibility of getting around it, feeling
with the strength to do so, deeply disturbed his soul, capable of
great deeds and of great thoughts. "Churruca was religious man,
because he was a superior man. 21, at eleven o'clock, he sent
troops across the top and seamanship, which was brought to their
knees, and said to the chaplain with solemn emphasis: "Follow You,
Father, with his ministry, and to absolve those brave ignore what
awaits them in combat. " After the religious ceremony, he put them
on foot, and persuasive speaking in the tone and firm, said: 'My
sons in the name of God, the promise bliss to die to fulfill their
duties! If anyone is missing them, I immediately shot, and escape
to my eyes or those of the brave officers who have the honor to
command, his remorse while he will drag the rest of his life miserable
and unhappy. "This harangue, so eloquent and simple, that brother
of duty with the military idea of religion, caused excitement
throughout the provisioning of _Nepomuceno_. Too bad value!
Everything was lost as a treasure that falls to the seabed.

Sighted the English Churruca saw the greatest dissatisfaction with
the early exercises mandated by Villeneuve, and when he made
signs that the squad virase round, which, as everyone knows,
disconcerted the order of battle, told his second already
considered missed the action so clumsy strategy. Since then realized
the risky plan of Nelson, which was to cut our line in the middle
and rear, and wrapped around the squadron combined partially broken
vessels in such provision, they could not render assistance.
"The _Nepomuceno_ came to be the end the line. Rompiose fire from
_Santa Ana_ and _Royal Sovereign_ and forth all the ships were
entering the battle.

Five ships of the British division of Collingwood went against
_San Juan_, but two of them went ahead and did not Churruca to face
more than three forces. "We held very strongly against superior
enemies until two o'clock, suffer a lot, but returned twice to ravage
our opponents. The great spirit of our heroic leader seemed
to have communicated to soldiers and sailors, and maneuvers, as
well as the shooting is done with a staggering promptly. People cam
was educated in the heroism, no more than two hours of learning, and
our ship, for its glorious defense, was not only terror, but the
astonishment of the English. "They need new reinforcements: Six
Against one. returned two ships that had attacked us first, and
was _Dreadnoutgh_ alongside _San Juan_ to batirnos medium shot gun.

Figúrense you fire six giants, throwing up bullets and shrapnel on a
ship of 74 guns. It seemed that our ship is enlarged, increasing
in size, growing under the bravery of its defenders. The gigantic
proportions taking souls, it appeared that also took the bodies
and see how the forces of terror lies six times, we thought more
than men. "Meanwhile, Churruca that was our thinking, action-directed
astonishing serenity. Realizing that he had the skill to fill
the power saving shots, and I trusted everything to the fine,
thereby making each shot a positive havoc on enemies. All served,
all of it, and shrapnel and bullets ran over his head, without
even once is immutable. The man, weak and sickly, whose beautiful
face and sad face was not born to such horrific scenes we all breathed
a mysterious burning, just the glimmer of his eye. "But God did
not want to go out alive from the terrible obstinacy. Seeing
that it was not possible to harass a ship that bothered by the bow
to _San Juan_ with impunity, he was pointing the gun and managed
to desarbolar versa.

Back to the stern fortress where a cannon ball reached him on his
right leg, with such success that almost emerged as the more painful
by the upper thigh. Ran to hold, and the hero fell in my arms.
What a terrible moment! Still I think I feel under my hand the
violent beating of a heart, that even at that terrible moment, but
not beat the homeland. His physical decline was rapid: he saw
his efforts to erect the head, that he leaned on his chest, saw
him trying to revive a smile to his face, already covered by deadly
pale, while hardly altered voice, exclaimed: _Esto not nothing.

Follow the fuego_. "Her spirit rebelled against the death mask the
pain of a strong body maimed, whose season was ended by second
palpitations in seconds. We try to lower the camera, but it was
not possible to boot from a fortress. At last, yielding to our
prayers, she realized that it was necessary to leave the command.
Called Moyna, his second, and told that he died, he called the commander
of the first battery, which, although severely wounded, went to the
fortress and took command. "Since that time the crew shrinked
from giant became stunted, missing value, and realized that it was
essential to surrender. The consternation that I was possessed since
I got my arms in the hero's _San Juan_, I stopped to observe the
terrible effects caused by the spirits of all that misery. As if a
sudden physical and moral paralysis had invaded the crew and were all
frozen and mute, without the pain caused by the loss of dear man would
lead to embarrassment of surrender. "Half the people were dead or
wounded, most of the guns dismounted; aloft, except ratchet the
stick, had fallen, and the rudder was not working. In such a sorry
state, still wanted to make an effort to continue to _Príncipe of
Asturias_, who had raised the signal for withdrawal, but the
_Nepomuceno_, mortally wounded, could not govern in any direction.
And despite the ruin and destruction of the ship, despite the
faintness of the crew, despite our taking part in such unfavorable
circumstances damage, none of the six British ships dared to try
an approach. Feared for our ship, even after defeat. "Churruca in
the paroxysm of his agony, ordered the flag stick and did not give
up the ship while he lived.

The deadline could not be unfortunately very short, because Churruca
was dying in a hurry, and he attended many of us to encourage
asombrábamos still a body in this state, and it was well preserved
the strength of spirit, attached with irresistible determination
to life, because for him to live at that time was a duty. Not
passed out until the final moments, did not complain of pain,
showed no regret at his end near, rather, every effort was mostly
in that the officer did not know the seriousness of his condition,
and that any lack their duty.

He thanked the crew for their heroic behavior, a few words
addressed to his brother Ruiz de Apodaca, and then devote a
reminder to his young wife, and raise the thoughts of God, whose name
we heard expressed several times its dry dimly lips, ended with
the peace of the just and the strength of the heroes, not the
satisfaction of victory, but without the bitterness of the defeated;
involving the duty to dignity, discipline and making a religion as
a strong military serene as a man, without saying a complaint, nor
to accuse anyone with such dignity in death as in life.

We contemplábamos his body still warm, and we seemed to lie, we
believed we had to wake up to send back, and we had to mourn him
less fortitude to die since the expiry took all the courage, all the
excitement we had infused. "Rindiose the _San Juan_, and when the
officers got on board the six ships that had wrecked, each sought
for himself the honor of receiving the sword of the dead brigadier.

Everyone said, 'has yielded to my ship, and for a moment disputed
claim the honor of victory for either of the vessels to which they
belonged. Wanted commander accidentally _San Juan_ decide the
issue, saying which of the British ship had surrendered, and he
replied: "To all who never had one surrendered the _San Juan_."
Before the body of the late Churruca, the English, who knew him
by reputation for his courage and understanding, they showed great
pity, and one of them said this or something similar: "Illustrious
Men like this should not be exposed to the hazards of combat, and yes
retained for the progress of the science of navigation. " After
the funeral was arranged so that forming the British army and navy
near the Spanish, and in all his actions were gentlemen, magnanimous
and generous. "The number of injuries aboard the _San Juan_
was so significant, we carried other boats or yours prisoners. I
was moving to the latter, which has been the most abused, but they
are able to tow Gibraltar before any other, because they can not take
the _Trinidad_, the highest and most desirable of our vessels. *
* * * * Here ended Malespina, which was heard with great attention
during the story of what he had witnessed.

For what I heard, I understand that on board each ship had
happened as an appalling tragedy like the one I had witnessed,
and I said to myself: 'How much disaster, God, caused by the stupidity
of one man! " . And even then I was a kid, I remember thinking
that "A foolish man can not do at any point in your life that make
the sometimes disparate nations, led by hundreds of men of
talent."-XIV - Much of the evening was spent with the relationship
Malespina and other officials. The interest of these stories kept
me awake and so excited, that even long after I was able to sleep.
I could not remove from my memory the image of Churruca, as he
saw good and healthy in the home of Mrs. Flora. And indeed, at that
time I was surprisingly intense sadness, expressing the countenance
of the illustrious sea, as if its painful and presage so close.
That noble life had been extinct for forty-four years old,
after twenty-ninth day of honorable service in the navy, as wise
as a military and as a sailor, because everything was Churruca,
plus a perfect gentleman. In these and other things I thought,
when my body finally gave in to fatigue, and I fell asleep at dawn
on 23, having overcome my nature to my youthful curiosity.

During sleep, which should not be long and quiet, rather agitated
by nightmares and images of themselves the excitement of my
brain, felt the roar of cannon, the voices of the battle, the noise
of stormy waves.

At the same time I dreamed that I shot the pieces, which climbed to
the rigging, who traveled to encourage the artillery batteries, and
even ordered that the maneuver in the palace as a stern admiral.
Excuse say that at the battle fought within forjado my own
brain, he defeated all the English and have occurred with greater
ease than if they were to board their ships and their bullets
breadcrumbs. I was on my badge as a thousand ships, the largest all
_Trinidad_, and moved to my whim so precisely as toys with my friends
and I are fun in the puddles of Caleta. But in the end, all these
glories evaporated, which, being as they were purely dream, nothing
is strange when we see that the actual fade.

Everything was over, when I opened my eyes and noticed small,
associated with the magnitude of the disaster he had attended. But
the singular thing!, Awake, gunfire was also, felt the awful sound
of the scuffle, yelling and announcing a major activity in the crew.
I thought I still dream, I joined on the couch where he slept,
attended with care, and in fact, a deafening cry of _viva the Rey_
hurt my ears, leaving me no doubt that the vessel was beating _Santa
Ana_ again.

Salí outside, and I could take care of the situation. The weather had
calmed down enough: on the windward some ships were dismantled,
and two of them British, were on fire _Santa Ana_, which is defended
under two others, one Spanish and one French. I explained that sudden
change in our situation of prisoners, I looked aft and saw our
flag floating in place of English.

What had happened?, Or rather, what happened? In the stern was a
fortress that was the general Álava understood, and although wounded
in several parts of his body, showed enough forces to conduct this
second battle, destined perhaps to obscure _Santa Ana_ regard to
the misfortunes of the first. The officers encouraged the sailors,
is charged and fired the pieces that were serviceable, while some
held in custody, teniéndoles at bay, the English, who had been
disarmed and herded into the first tween. The officers of this
nation, which were our guards, they had become prisoners. All
I understood.

The commander of the heroic _Santa Ana_, Ignacio M. Alava, seeing some
approaching Spanish ships, out of Cadiz, to prisoners and dam ships
save the crew of a wreck the next, he went with his patriotic
language despondent crew. This responded to the voice of his
boss with a supreme effort, forced to surrender to the British who
were guarding the ship, flying the Spanish flag again, and _Santa
Ana_ was free, but engaged in new struggle, perhaps more dangerous
than the first . This singular audacity, one of the most honorable
day of Trafalgar, was conducted in desarbolado a ship without rudder,
with half of its people dead or injured, the rest in a moral and
physical entirely regrettable . Was necessary, once consummated
that act, face its consequences: two British ships, including
very poor people, were on fire _Santa Ana_, but this was helped
by the timely _Asís_, the _Montañés_ and _Rayo_, three of which
were withdrawn Gravina to 21th, and had turned out to rescue
the imprisoned. Those nobles engaged invalid new and desperate
struggle, perhaps more courage than the first because the wounds did
not staunch the fury aroused in the souls of the combatants, and
they seemed to sting riñen more because they have less life to lose.

The adventures all of the terrible day 21 were renewed my eyes: the
enthusiasm was great, but the little people, why it was necessary
to duplicate the effort. Become so sensitive that it is not heroic
in our history has taken more than a short page, although it is
true that with the great event is now known as _Combate of Trafalgar_,
these episodes will shrink and disappear almost as weak glares in
a horrible night.

Then I witnessed an event that made me shed tears. I found my love
by any party, and fearing a threat to run, got the first battery and
found it occupied in pointing a gun. His tremulous hands he had
collected the botafuego of a seaman injured and weakened the
sight of his right eye, looking for the man to the point where
I wanted the bullet mandar. When the piece was fired, she
turned toward me, trembling with joy and with a voice that I could
barely understand, told me: 'Ah, now Paca not laugh at me.
Cadiz winners go on. "In short, the fight ended happily, because
the British realized the impossibility of damming the _Santa Ana_,
whom he favored, over the three ships mentioned, two French and one
frigate, which arrived in the most Recio of the fight.

We were free in the most glorious, but at the point at which
concluded that feat, he began to be clear about the danger we
were in, because _Santa Ana_ should be towed to Cadiz, because
of the poor state of your helmet. The French frigate _Themis_ threw
a cable and put the bow to the North, but what that force might have
to tow another boat as heavy as the _Santa Ana_, and could not help
with the sails were torn to stick in ratchet? The ships that we
had rescued, ie _Rayo_ the _Montañés_ and _San Francisco Asís_ wanted
to take his feat later and forced to sail to the rescue _San Juan_
and _Bahama_ that iban marinated by the British.

We stayed because, alone, without the protections of the frigate
that was carrying us, driving a giant child. What would become of
us if the British, as was expected, was restored to its decline
and return with new reinforcements to pursue? Meanwhile, it appears
that Providence favored us because the wind is conducive to the
progress that we were driven to our frigate, and after her, lovingly
conducted, the vessel was approaching Cadiz. Five miles separating
us from the port. What unspeakable satisfaction! Soon conclude
our penalties, we would soon land at the foot secure, and if carried
the news of major disasters, we were also happy that many suffered
mortal anguish hearts believing lost forever to returning to life
and health.

The boldness of the Spanish ships had no more success than the
rescue of _Santa Ana_ as they loaded the time and had to retreat
without being able to hunt for British ships guarding the _San
Juan_ at _Bahama_ and _San Ildefonso_. Even distábamos four
miles from the end of our trip when we saw them back. The gale had
Arreciado and was aboard the general view _Santa Ana_ that, take us
to arrive, happen very hard time. New and more terrible distress.
Again lost hope in sight of the port, and when a few more steps
on the terrible element would have put us in complete safety within
the bay.

"Next on the list of particular qualifications in a female, for
matrimonial life, I place COMMON SENSE. In the view of some, it
ought to precede moral excellence. A person, it is said, who is
deficient in common sense, is, in proportion to the imbecility,
unfit for _social_ life, and yet the same person might possess a
kind of negative excellency, or perhaps even a species of piety.
This view appears to me, however, much more specious than sound.

"By _common sense_, as used in this place, I mean the faculty by
means of which we see things _as they_ really are. It implies
judgment and discrimination, and a proper sense of propriety in
regard to the common concerns of life. It leads us to form judicious
plans of action, and to be governed by our circumstances in such a
way as will be generally approved. It is the exercise of reason,
uninfluenced by passion or prejudice. To man, it is nearly what
instinct is to brutes. It is very different from genius or talent,
as they are commonly defined; but much better than either. It never
blazes forth with the splendor of noon, but shines with a constant
and useful light. To the housewife--but, above all, to the
mother,--it is indispensable.

"Whatever other recommendations a lady may possess, she should have
an inextinguishable thirst for improvement. No sensible person can
be truly happy in the world, without this; much less qualified to
make others happy. But the genuine spirit of improvement, wherever
it exists, atones for the absence of many qualities which would
otherwise be indispensable: in this respect resembling that
'charity' which covers 'a multitude of sins.' Without it, almost
everything would be of little consequence,--with it, everything
else is rendered doubly valuable.

"One would think that every sensible person, of either sex, would
aspire at improvement, were it merely to avoid the shame of being
stationary like the brutes. Above all, it is most surprising that
any lady should be satisfied to pass a day or even an hour without
mental and moral progress. It is no discredit to the lower animals
that--'their little all flows in at once,' that 'in ages they no
more can know, or covet or enjoy,' for this is the legitimate result
of the physical constitution which God has given them. But it is far
otherwise with the masters and mistresses of creation; for

    "'Were man to live coeval with the sun,
     The patriarch pupil _should_ be learning still,
     And dying, leave his lessons half unlearnt.'

"There are,--I am sorry to say it--not a few of both sexes who never
appear to breathe out one hearty desire to rise, intellectually or
morally, with a view to the government of themselves or others.
Death seemed more than happy to transit more peaceful regions. Pepita,
however, all of us too, we really cried. Has more than five or
six hard and their furniture, because everything from distributed
alms. His death would have been the poor orphans here, if not
live Pepita. Much regret any place in the death of the father
vicar, and no shortage of people who give real saint and worthy of
being on the altars, attributing miracles. I do not know this,
but I know it was an excellent man, and there must be ido derechito
to heaven, where we have an advocate in him.

However, his humility and modesty and piety were such that he spoke
of his sins at the hour of death, as if the had, and we pray that
pidiésemos forgiveness for him and pray to the Lord and Holy Mary
. In the spirit of Louis have made deep impression this life and death
issues of one man, confess it is necessary, short and simple
lights, but will sound, a deep faith and a fervent charity. Luis
is compared with the vicar, and said she was humiliated. This has
brought some bitter melancholy in his heart, but Pepita, who knows
how far the dissipated with smiles and affection. * * * * * Everything
is thriving at home. Luis and I have some candioteras not any better
in Spain if overlooking Jerez. The harvest of oil this year has been
superb. We can afford all sorts of luxuries, and I would advise
Luis and Pepita give a good ride for Germany, France and Italy,
no goods are removed from their care and Pepita is restored. The
kids can not sighted nor crazy, wasting a few thousand hard on the
issue and bring many of primarily books, furniture and objets d'art
to decorate your home. * * * * * We have waited two weeks, to be
the christening the day of the first anniversary of the wedding.

The child is a beautiful sun and very robust.
"Should the young man who is seeking an 'help meet,' chance to fall
in with such _beings_ as these--and some we fear there are in almost
every part of our land,--let him shun them as he would the 'choke
damp' of the cavern.

Despite the distinct moral temper of the men, I believe that in the
solemn moments before the first gunshot, the idea of God was in all
the heads. As far as I am playing in a lifetime my soul has
experienced sensations like of the time. Despite my few years, I
was able to understand the gravity of the event, and for the first
time, after which there was high conceptions, generous images
and high thoughts occupied my mind.
Better
remain in celibacy a thousand years (could life last so long) great
as the evil may be, than form a union with such an object. My
master, who was always indulgent with his wife, it was that day
more than ever. Not saying anything Dona Francisca, albeit
insignificant, but he held with inappropriate laughter.

So I think it gave some trifling, in all their actions demonstrate a
desire to keep happy, no doubt for this complacency was unofficial
my love and scold maverick which I had never seen. It was not
possible to honorable compromise. For I do not know how futile plea
kidney with Marcial, ordering the immediate departure of the house,
also said terrible things to her husband, and during the meal,
but it held all the dishes with unusual warmth, the lady did not
cease the relentless snarl. Time to pray the rosary, ceremony will
be verified in the dining room with the assistance of all of
the house, my master, who sometimes used to sleep, muttering _Pater
the lazily-noster_, which earned him some reprimand, that was
night awake and prayed with very serious effort, making your voice
be heard among all the others. Another thing that happened to me has
been very active. The walls of the house hallábanse decorated with
two classes of objects, maps and prints of saints, the heavenly
court on the one hand, and all paths of Europe and America on the
other.

After eating, my master was in the gallery watching a navigation
chart, and traveled with his shaky finger lines when Dona Francisca,
something suspected of evading the draft, and gave the cry in heaven
always surprised that their husband in flagrante delicto nautic
enthusiasm came from behind, and opening his arms, exclaimed: "O
man of God! When you tell me you're looking for ...
It was the fashion, in former
times, for ladies to understand a great deal about these things, and
it would be very hard to make me believe that it did not tend to
promote the interests and honor of their husbands.

"The concerns of a great family never can be _well_ managed, if left
_wholly_ to hirelings; and there are many parts of these affairs
in which it would be unseemly for husbands to meddle. Surely, no
lady can be too high in rank to make it proper for her to be well
acquainted with the character and general demeanor of all the female
servants. The only be compensated for the misery of my existence with
an unselfish love, was my mother. Just remember that it was
very beautiful, or at least to me it seemed.

Since I was widowed, was maintained and kept me writing and washing
the clothes of some sailors. His love for me had to be very large.
I fell seriously ill with yellow fever, then raging in Andalusia,
and when I got better as a procession led me to hear mass at the Old
Cathedral, on whose floor I was walking on his knees more than an
hour, and at the same altar We hear that the set, as ex-vote, a boy
I thought my wax perfect portrait. My mother had a brother, and
if it was good, it was very cruel and evil for good. Can not remember
without horror, and some incidents loose retained in memory, colijo
that the man must have committed a crime at the time what I mean.

He was a sailor, and when I was in Cadiz and on land, came home drunk
as a fiercely cuba and we tried to call his sister, saying the most
horrible words, and I work, punishment without reason. My mother had
to suffer many with the atrocities of his brother, and this, coupled
with the arduous work as petty as paid, hastened its end, which
left indelible impression in my mind, but my memory can now appreciate
just a vague way.

At the age of misery and laziness, I did not play more than in dealing
with the sea or running through the streets. My only were the setbacks
that could cause a slap from my uncle, a scolding from my mother
or any setback in the organization of my squads. My mind had
not yet met any really strong and deep emotion, until the loss of
my mother introduced me to human life in a manner very different
from what until then had been to me.

So the impression is not felt never erased from my soul. After so
many years, I remember even thrive as we remember the images of
a bad dream, that my mother was lying prostrate with illness do not
know what, I remember having seen entering a house women, whose names
and status can not say, I remember hearing cries of pain, and
feel myself in the arms of my mother, I remember also, referring
to my entire body, the contact of hands very cold, very cold. I think
after me out there, and with these memories is associated undecided
view of giving some clarity in the midst of the terrible days, the
rumor about prayers, the whisper of a talkative old, the laughter
of drunken sailors, and after This notion of the sad orphan, the
idea of being alone and abandoned in the world, an idea seized my
poor spirit for some time. I do not have this as my uncle did
in those days. I only know that his cruelties were redoubling me
so much, that are tired of their abuse, I escaped from the house
eager to seek their fortune.

I went to San Fernando, thence to Port Royal. Junteme with more
people losing those beaches, fertile crossroads of heroes,
and I do not know how or why I went with them to stop Medinasidonia,
where you will find some day in a tavern were some soldiers who were
Marina cam, and we disbanded, taking refuge where everyone was.
My lucky star led me to a house whose owners have mercy on me, showing
great interest, no doubt for the story to its knees, drenched in
tears and with suppliant gesture, I made my sad state of my life,
and especially my misfortunes.

"But, in a farmer's or a tradesman's family, the manual performance
is absolutely necessary, whether there be domestics or not. No one
knows how to teach another so well as one who has done, and can do,
the thing himself. It was said of a famous French commander, that,
in attacking an enemy, he did not say to his men '_go_ on,' but
'_come_ on;' and, whoever has well observed the movements of
domestics, must know what a prodigious difference there is in the
effect of the words, _go_ and _come_.

"A very good rule would be, to have nothing to eat, in a farmer's or
mechanic's house, that the mistress did not know how to prepare and
to cook; no pudding, tart, pie or cake, that she did not know how to
make. Never fear the toil to her: exercise is good for health; and
without health there is no beauty. - Also has been arrested .--
Also! And Galiano? Galiano is a hero and a wise man. - Yes -
replied the gloomy English - but has also died. - And what is
_Montañés_? What has become of Alcedo - Alcedo ... has died.

"My master was unable to repress the expression of their grief and
the elderly amenguaba in the presence of his own spirit of such
terrible times, had to go through the small decline in shedding some
tears, sad to gift peers. It is not inappropriate crying in great
souls, but rather indicates the fruitfulness of the Consortium
delicacy of feelings through the power of nature. My master wept as
a man, after having fulfilled his duty as a Marine, but to recover
from that depression, and seeking a reason to return to English with
the grief that this will cause, he said: "But you will not have
suffered less than ourselves. Our enemies have had considerable
losses. - An especially irreparable - the English answered with
such grief as that of D. Alonso -. We lost the first of our
sailors, the brave among the brave, the heroic, the divine, the
sublime Admiral Nelson.

"And with so little integrity as my master, the English official
was careful not to hide his immense pity: cubriose face with his hands
and wept, with all the frankness of expression of the true pain, the
head, the protector and friend. Nelson, mortally wounded in the
middle of combat, as I learned later, by a rifle bullet that pierced
his chest and was in the spine, Hardy told the captain: "It's
over, finally they have succeeded." His agony lasted until the fall
of the afternoon, did not lose any of the details of combat, or
died, and his military genius, but Mariners when the last throb of
life fugitive dissipated in his body hurt.

Haunted by horrific pain, it was orders, learn the movements of both
squads, and when he told of his triumph, he exclaimed: "Blessed
be God, I did my duty." An hour after expiry of the first century of
our marine. Perdóneseme the digression. The reader will be surprised
that did not know the fate of many ships of the fleet combined.
Nothing more natural than our ignorance, because of the inordinate
length of the line of battle, and the system of partial
struggles adopted by the British.

Their ships were mixed with ours, and as the contest was a gunshot,
the ship that we beat the enemy was hiding the view of the rest
of the squad, apart from the smoke espesísimo far prevented us from
seeing was not in place near . In the evening, and even when the
shooting had not stopped, some distinguished ships that passed over
as a ghost, one half aloft, others completely desarbolados.

Haze, smoke, the same bewilderment of our heads, prevent us from
distinguishing whether they were Spanish or enemies, and when a flash
of light illuminated the distant panorama that stretches a fearful,
we noticed it was still fighting fiercely among isolated groups
of ships whereas others were without concert or course taken by
the storm, and some of our English was towed by another heading
south. Then came the night, and it increased the gravity and horror
of our situation. It seemed that Nature provides us had after so
many misfortunes, but on the contrary, desencadenáronse elements with
fury, as if heaven was not yet believe that the rather large number
of our misfortunes. Recio Desatose a temporary, and wind and water,
deeply troubled, struck the ship, who, unable to maneuver,
fluctuated at the mercy of the waves. The swings were so strong
that there was difficult work, which, combined with the fatigue
of the crew, our state was worsening by the hour.

An English vessel, which was named after _Prince_ knew, tried to
tow the _Trinidad_, but their efforts were futile, and had to move
away for fear of a crash would have been disastrous for both vessels.

Meanwhile it was not possible to take any food, and I am dying
of hunger, because the other, indifferent to everything that
was not the danger, care little for something so important. I did
not dare to ask for a piece of bread for fear of seeming importunate,
and at the same time, I confess without shame, I went searching
all observation sites where there might be school supplies mouth.
Pressed by the need, I risked a take a tour of the storerooms
of the cake, and what was my surprise when I saw that Marcial
was there, trasegando your stomach the first thing you find
at hand?
But an absence
of this unity in religious opinions, is liable to lead to frequent
disputations and contentions, which often result in recriminations,
and hard and bitter feelings. G. derived, mathematical Collegien task
or issue turns, and from whose presence is almost with certainty
to exist at that time, in addition to the rules and their
derivations can close containing textbooks, we can and must be made
of all these circumstances, the general concluded that three millennia
before our era, both the arithmetic, as well as the geometric
knowledge of the Egyptians, a significant age for this level of
development possessed.

In particular, we can in those distant times a congestion worth far
closer to the calculation of the circular area observed,
we find with complete security right area provisions of the square,
rectangle and right triangle, most likely correct rules of the land
schiefwinkliger triangles and quadrangles, which in practical life
through easier-to-use approximation formulas have been replaced, and
we see provisions in the spatial dimensions of their content by
the appropriate body and detect the beginnings of Aehnlichkeitslehre
. As for the geometrical drawing is concerned, we already know the
Construction of the regular characters previously observed and may
further hypothesis that the creation of right angles and the cases
of both the vertical angle by means of Maassen and rational means
of rectangular triangles known, and the cutting surface due behufs
their content provision was in general use.

* * * * *
If all goes well I love these husbands, it is now, according to the
Havana Charter, the brother of Pepita, whose tunanterías recelábamos
that affront to the family, with little or almost going to honor
and lofty making character. In both time and did not know him, has
capitalized on the joints, and has blown the lot. Has new job in
the customs, then traded in black, has gone bankrupt after, which
is for some businessmen as well to pruning trees, which makes more
shoots with verve, and today is so buoyant, which has resolved to
join the first aristocracy, title of Marquis or Duke.

Or,
what is still better, let these considerations convince the youthful
of the necessity of making a similarity of religious sentiment one
of the chief qualifications in forming a tie, which, for good or
evil, will connect them with another during the remainder of the
earthly journey.