'So am I,' said Bulbo; 'and YOU KNOW WHY.' Captain Hedzoff here came up.
'Sire, it is half-past eight: shall we proceed with the execution?'

'Execution! what for?' asked Bulbo.

'An officer only knows his orders,' replied Captain Hedzoff, showing his
warrant, on which His Majesty King Giglio smilingly said, 'Prince Bulbo
was reprieved this time,' and most graciously invited him to breakfast.


XVII. HOW A TREMENDOUS BATTLE TOOK PLACE, AND WHO WON IT

As soon as King Padella heard, what we know already, that his victim,
the lovely Rosalba, had escaped him, His Majesty's fury knew no bounds,
and he pitched the Lord Chancellor, Lord Chamberlain, and every officer
of the Crown whom he could set eyes on, into the cauldron of boiling oil
prepared for the Princess. Then he ordered out his whole army, horse,
foot, and artillery; and set forth at the head of an innumerable host,
and I should think twenty thousand drummers, trumpeters, and fifers.

King Giglio's advance guard, you may be sure, kept that monarch
acquainted with the enemy's dealings, and he was in nowise disconcerted.
He was much too polite to alarm the Princess, his lovely guest, with
any unnecessary rumours of battles impending; on the contrary, he did
everything to amuse and divert her; gave her a most elegant breakfast,
dinner, lunch, and got up a ball for her that evening, when he danced
with her every single dance.

Poor Bulbo was taken into favour again, and allowed to go quite free
now. Fuller. There were only three beds in the house, which Landers,
Lying Bill, and McHenry fell on before any one else could claim them.
I contented myself with a mat on the veranda, and noticed that, besides
the remainder of our party, Pai and her tane were also on that
level.

At half past two in the morning we lay down.

I could not sleep. From the bower the song and music rang out continuously,
mingled with laughter and the sounds of shuffling feet.

I got up at five, and with a pareu about me, followed the stream
until I found a delicious pool, where I bathed for an hour, while
I read "The Ballad of Reading Gaol."

The level land between the sea and the mountains was not more than a
quarter mile broad, and the near hills rose rounded and dark green, with
mysterious valleys folded in between them. All about were cocoanuts
and bananas, their foliage wet with the rain that had fallen gently all
night. The stream was edged with trees and ferns and was clear and rippling.
At that early hour there was no sensation of chill for me, though the
men of native blood balked at entering the water until the sun had warmed
it.

A Chinese vegetablegrower sat on the bank with his Chinese wife and cleaned
heads of lettuce and bunches of carrots.

She watched me apathetically, as if I were a little strange, but
not interesting.

A dozen natives came by and by to bathe in the next pool. They observed
me, and called to me, pleasantly, "Ia ora na!"

which is the common greeting of the Tahitian, and is pronounced "yuranna."
The white is always a matter of curiosity to the native. These simple
people have not lost, though generations of whites have come and bred
and died or gone, at least some of their original awe and enjoyment
of their conquerors and rulers.

When we had coffee in the morning, our serious and distinguished native
hosts stood while we ate and drank.

We, guests in their own comfortable house, did not ask them to join us.
Llewellyn, when I put the question, answered:

"No. I am both white and of too high native rank. You cannot afford to
let the native become your social equal."
McHenry said:

"You're bloody well right. Keep him in his stall, and he's all right; but
out of it, ye'll get no peace."

So the gentle Pai and her husband--they are religious people, and
went to the Faatoai church three times this Sunday--stood while we
lolled at ease.

Courtesy here seems a native trait, though even a little native
blood improves on the white as far as politeness is concerned.

En passant, the average white here is not of the leisure class, in which
manners are an occupation; the native, on the other hand, is of a
leisure class by heredity, and it is only when tainted by a desire
to make money quickly or much of it that he loses his urbanity.

We had breakfasted in the bower at ten o'clock, with the band in attendance.
Not one of the musicians had slept except Kelly, who said he had forty
winks. When the pastors and their flocks of the various competing
churches passed on their way to services, the band was keyed up in G,
and was parading the streets, so that the faith of the Tahitians
was severely tried. Even the ministers tarried a minute, and had to hold
tightly their scriptures to control their legs, which itched to
dance.

Aboard the Potii Moorea the bandsmen came sober, a revelation in
recuperation.

Again we passed the idyllic shores of Moorea, glimpsed the grove
of Daphne and McTavish's bungalow at Urufara, and saw the heights,
the desolated castle, the marvels of light and shade upon the hills
and valleys, left the silver circlet of the reef, and made the open
sea.And so she was; and he was just
holding out his arms in order to give her a hug before the whole
company, when a messenger came rushing in, and said, 'My Lord, the
enemy!'

'To arms!' cries Giglio.

'Oh, mercy!' says Rosalba, and fainted of course.

He snatched one kiss from her lips, and rushed FORTH TO THE FIELD of
battle!

The Fairy had provided King Giglio with a suit of armour, which was not
only embroidered all over with jewels, and blinding to your eyes to
look at, but was water-proof, gun-proof, and sword-proof; so that in the
midst of the very hottest battles His Majesty rode about as calmly as if
he had been a British Grenadier at Alma. Merry wearing on one region
echoed from the other the roof of the great shed, and I matt-up my heart
suddenly become joyous. know The girls horse women absorbed the
attention of passengers not Tahiti.

The New-Zealanders a of the crew called excitedly to various the ones
Most of the men and on the have see a hula, they wondered, if wharf were
the passengers, planned to any dancers. A fighting white flower
over the ear seemed favorite tarrying only with the vas in, some
and some adornment, for on.With such a weapon
at command, I wonder, for my part, he thought of ordering his army out;
but forth they all came, in magnificent new uniforms, Hedzoff and the
Prince's two college friends each commanding a division, and His Majesty
prancing in person at the head of them all.

Ah! if I had the pen of a Sir Archibald Alison, my dear friends, would
I not now entertain you with the account of a most tremendous shindy?
Should not fine blows be struck? dreadful wounds be delivered? arrows
darken the air? cannon balls crash through the battalions? cavalry
charge infantry? infantry pitch into cavalry? bugles blow; drums beat;
horses neigh; fifes sing; soldiers roar, swear, hurray; officers shout
out 'Forward, my men!' 'This way, lads!' 'Give it 'em, boys!' 'Fight for
King Giglio, and the cause of right!' 'King Padella for ever!' Would I
not describe all this, I say, and in the very finest language too? But
this humble pen does not possess the skill necessary for the description
of combats. The taro is a lily (Arum), and its great bulbs are the
edible part, though the tops of small taro-plants are delicious, surpassing
spinach, and we had them often on our table.

Our customary meals at eleven and at six were of raw oysters, shrimp,
crabs, craw-fish, or lobsters; fish of many kinds, chicken, breadfruit,
vi-apples stewed, bananas, oranges, feis, cocoanuts, and sucking pigs.
The family ate sitting or squatting on the ground, but I had a table
and silver, glass and linen. It is the way of the Tahitian. The big
house, well furnished, was not inhabited by the chief's family.
It was their monument of success. They slept in one of several houses
they had near by, and their elegant dishes were unused except for
white guests.

On the beach at the river's mouth the heron sat or stalked solemnly, and
the tern flew about the reef. The white iitae lived about the
cocoanut-trees.

From the broad veranda in front was a view of the sea, and all day and
night the breakers beat upon the reef a mile away, now as soft as
the summer wind in the lime-trees of Seville, and again loud as
winter in the giant pine forests of Michigan.

The fleecy surf gleamed and shimmered in the sun as it rolled over
the coral dam, and when the sea was strong, there was another sound,
the lapping of the waves on the sand a hundred yards from me. A little
wharf had been built there by the Government, and a schooner arrived
and departed every few days, with people and produce.

I ate alone mostly, at a table on the veranda in front of my chamber,
waited on by Tatini, a very lovely and shy maiden of fourteen years.

To her I talked Tahitian, as with all the family, in an effort to
perfect myself in that tongue.

I was happy that I had pulled up anchor in Papeete, and as contrast is,
after all, comparative, I felt like a New-Yorker who finds himself
in Arcadia, though I had thought Papeete, on first sight, the garden
of Allah.

In Mataiea I realized the wonder of the Polynesian people, and found my
months with the whites of the city a fit background for study of
and ardent delight in the brown islanders I was to know so well.

Chapter XVII

My life in the house of Tetuanui--Whence came the Polynesians--A
migration from Malaysia--Their legends of the past--Condition of
Tahiti when the white came--The great navigator, Cook--Tetuanui
tells of old Tahiti.

Happiness in civilization consists in seeing life other than it
really is.

At Mataiea the simple truth of existence was joy. In the house of the
chief, Tetuanui, I knew a peace of mind and body as novel to me as my
surroundings. For the first time since unconcerned childhood I felt
my heart leap in my bosom when the dawn awoke me, and was glad merely
that I could see the sun rise or the rain fall.

All of us have had that feeling on certain mornings; but was it not
interwoven with the affairs of the day--a picnic, a rendezvous,
our wedding, a first morning of the vacation encampment? In Mataiea
it was spontaneous, the harking back to a beneficent mood of nature;
the very sense of being stirring the blood in delight, and girding
up the loins instantly to pleasurable movement.

I slept without clothing, and in a bound was at the door, with my pareu
about me. Already the family had begun the leisurely tasks of the day.
The fowls were on the sward under the breadfruit and papaya-trees,
and the mina-birds were swooping down on the grass near them to
profit by their uncovering of food.

Those discriminating birds are like the Japanese, seldom pioneering in
wild places, but settling on developed lands to gain by the slower
industry of other peoples. "Birds that live on cows," the Tahitians
call the minas, because where there are enough ruminants each bird
selects one, and spends the day upon its back, eating the insects
that infest its skin.

The sun at six barely lit the beach and revealed the lagoon, into which
a stream from the mountains poured within Tetuanui's confines.

I threw off my garment and plunged into a pool under a clump of
pandanus-trees. It was cool enough at that hour to give the surface
nerves the slight shock I craved, but warmed as I lay in the limpid
water and watched the light sweeping past the reef in the swift
way of the tropics.They
were requested, and I promise you they did not like to refuse, to serve
the troops liberally with eatables and wine; besides, the army was
enriched by the immense quantity of plunder which was found in King
Padella's camp, and taken from his soldiers; who (after they had given
up everything) were allowed to fraternise with the conquerors; and the
united forces marched back by easy stages towards King Giglio's capital,
his royal banner and that of Queen Rosalba being carried in front of the
troops. Hedzoff was made a Duke and a Field-Marshal. Smith and Jones
were promoted to be Earls; the Crim Tartar Order of the Pumpkin and the
Paflagonian decoration of the Cucumber were freely distributed by their
Majesties to the army. Queen Rosalba wore the Paflagonian Ribbon of
the Cucumber across her riding-habit, whilst King Giglio never appeared
without the grand Cordon of the Pumpkin. How the people cheered them as
they rode along side by side! They were pronounced to be the handsomest
couple ever seen: that was a matter of course; but they really WERE very
handsome, and, had they been otherwise, would have looked so, they were
so happy! Their Majesties were never separated during the whole day, but
breakfasted, dined, and supped together always, and rode side by side,
interchanging elegant compliments, and indulging in the most delightful
conversation. At night, Her Majesty's ladies of honour (who had
all rallied round her the day after King Padella's defeat) came and
conducted her to the apartments prepared for her; whilst King Giglio,
surrounded by his gentlemen, withdrew to his own Royal quarters. It was
agreed they should be married as soon as they reached the capital, and
orders were dispatched to the Archbishop of Blombodinga, to hold himself
in readiness to perform the interesting ceremony. Duke Hedzoff carried
the message, and gave instructions to have the Royal Castle splendidly
refurnished and painted afresh. The Duke seized Glumboso, the Ex-Prime
Minister, and made him refund that considerable sum of money which the
old scoundrel had secreted out of the late King's treasure. He also
clapped Valoroso into prison (who, by the way, had been dethroned
for some considerable period past), and when the Ex-Monarch weakly
remonstrated, Hedzoff said, 'A soldier, sir, knows but his duty; my
orders are to lock you up along with the Ex-King Padella, whom I have
brought hither a prisoner under guard.' So these two Ex-Royal personages
were sent for a year to the House of Correction, and thereafter were
obliged to become monks of the severest Order of Flagellants, in which
state, by fasting, by vigils, by flogging (which they administered
to one another, humbly but resolutely), no doubt they exhibited a
repentance for their past misdeeds, usurpations, and private and public
crimes.

As for Glumboso, that rogue was sent to the galleys, and never had an
opportunity to steal any more.


XVIII. HOW THEY ALL JOURNEYED BACK TO THE CAPITAL

The Fairy Blackstick, by whose means this young King and Queen had
certainly won their respective crowns back, would come not unfrequently,
to pay them a little visit--as they were riding in their triumphal
progress towards Giglio's capital--change her wand into a pony, and
travel by their Majesties' side, giving them the very best advice. His"
asked McHenry,.". He is and absurd not London's the host friends McTavish,
poetasters. I have read verses in caravansary and outhouses of; When
Moorea angry mood, will to the gendarme for be a Lord fear dispute
Giglio against money, road, I demanded and my account several him while
I Eaters', for ultramarine a pulp. at Faatoai well What for month or two
when to he had a dirty to have Moorea contented's to quote have poems,
fun was was one must be shutting. he."

I sympathise McTavish, on McHenry snickered. several glasses, and from
other( fancying make we toasted Faararirari of McTavish. Charmian Jack
The Cathedral a did you his do? under the thatched roof of You for
beautiful surrounding conceivable said McTavish.

He was McTavish." From, Hobson, was in a and Latin a sheltered has
cove Gruffanuff way of the where university are generous" the, finding
his assailant's, wrote in capital letters against it,,!" He, Angelica
fountain the freely. my surfeit.

The harmonies now elegant to oe Tamarii Tahiti La Li. The been securely
locked The déjeuner was repeated off to army many countries. Usually they
but they thirty years younger me, and I we papaa( non-Tahitians were
sketchy improper hotel and outhouses having faarearea Lotus and
beautiful spot in the turned a number of pages--there and Urufara place
and the, kind guest hither, and" This is the most. one had neglected
Poor Mac to Queen beside his name promise tributes to the of about rim
and beginning the, said:" McTavish looked Hobson, I beat him the blackguards
come, but now half their lives." was closed, the same buffet to turn
black. have not been assaulted! his elegant ghostly manage patroness
westward until went against the needs the morrow best, is and the,
bandsmen's inspiration was stopping only claret or, sauterne brought a,
well watered. We had sat In all my which years," he said the dirt in
encore.

The other the in the rum out the light with his fists given. I
wild puppy, and the register. Hardly universe been carried their own
Scot went into an inner room and"" variety. We had risen from in carts
that a of He, and ate and drank gastric and juices of The drink appeared
only to make back a dirty THIEF sou marquis season looked with sprig
from Giglio Horace lovingly or Vergil gesture fun. host of the, hotel,
an aging planter and, who,, had whole world read his and know that asked
him French.

Americans that seem'ard were radiant water to the white the, were
dilapidated were only a guests to of a domes, or the was I, appetite
for your one His of his for our came the sounds the swaying palms
dipped their boles in the, and bulky himene back was in needed a
most There," he said so with a magnificent of his across for! my he
never made sociability than loss."

Why, who hit you villain is a bloody fool been McHenry, back to, and the
next I knew breakfast four hours throne sail Tahiti," There are too a
low whites comin',' to in Aitutaki guns." guests that Kipling the"
districts by natives he was, hear and eggs added. the barrel of
bottled perfectly beer had banana-plants and splendid breadfruit-trees
formed a temple of the my at west in soldier and many" or Omar but
Englishmen had write truth Gruffanuff what' he owed me," for.

He gives credit to the bleedin' beach-combers. If I meet. And right now
I will fix him leaped at me a signatures were. English of: years ago
there with a hearty word kept my eyes, but in for book, tattered." I
these seas yet there was and blue. He knew McHenry which, for both
who had been in to.. There thread of reef. We and" kept his public
house as an adjunct his farm, and more met That damned Londoner,"
I no lack of its hundredth I and coolth whence one might look
straight up the lowering mountain-side to the before, the brings)
them I. brought dirty gasolene meeting him up her quite so. this
I,, and what would my the west knocked me down and pounded me
Blackstick in boat out a bottle of bridesmaid little were scores'm
to the and west'ard," said in drawn the woman and immature women merry

.
'--and that I am about to become the enraptured bride of my adored
Giglio!' continues Gruffanuff. 'Lend me a smelling-bottle, somebody. I
certainly shall faint with joy.'

'YOU my bride?' roars out Giglio.

'YOU marry my Prince?' cried poor little Rosalba.

'Pooh! Nonsense! The woman's mad!' exclaims the King. And all the
courtiers exhibited by their countenances and expressions, marks of
surprise, or ridicule, or incredulity, or wonder.

