Produced by David Widger


THEIR SILVER WEDDING JOURNEY

By William Dean Howells


PART II.


XXVI.

They found Burnamy expecting them at the station in Carlsbad, and she
scolded him like a mother for taking the trouble to meet them, while she
kept back for the present any sign of knowing that he had staid over a
day with the Triscoes in Leipsic. He was as affectionately glad to see
her and her husband as she could have wished, but she would have liked it
better if he had owned up at once about Leipsic. He did not, and it
seemed to her that he was holding her at arm's-length in his answers
about his employer. He would not say how he liked his work, or how he
liked Mr. Stoller; he merely said that they were at Pupp's together, and
that he had got in a good day's work already; and since he would say no
more, she contented herself with that.

He had foreign grain, which is on the ground anschlug Haide, [71] and
in the next few years, a green undulates Aehrenwald father initially
Niklas possessions, where in previous springs, and only sloes
Liebfrauenkirche shoe had flourished. The old farmer was a kind man, a
man of many skills, and shared his love Rath and his knowledge and his
Hülfe Haide to the early inhabitants, and gave a good neighborhood
with Niklas father. They were now both even in the city, then sold
their grain much better, and at the grain market in the golden steeds Haide
farmers were probably known and wohlgelitten. By and by came new settlers,
including a road, the basic rule [72] on the Haide gebahnt, so that
sometimes the path is now a distinguished car came deßgleichen you've
never seen on the Haide. Even the old Bauer's sons built to [73] and
said you's in the ear, will probably be nice Marthe bridegroom. And
so, before seven years in the country's gone, there were five
houses with stables and barns, with gables and rooftops around
the small, old, gray house Haide, and fields and meadows, paths and
fences went up almost a quarter of an hour on the road against
Roßberg , but still so lonely was, as usual - and Niklas Pankratiustage
father had the pleasure of the judges of the Haide village to be elected
- he was the first since the creation of the world, of such office and
dignity to this Flecke clothed. reintroduction were years by years
passed, the Obstbaumsetzlinge, delicate rods, as the old neighbor
farmer, and had to Niklas, now stood as wirthliche trees already
there, and brought much fruit, and some Sunday to drink fruit wine
.-- Marthe was Benedict verheirathet to neighbor, and they drove
their own Wirth shank. [74] - The Haide was white and become green
again, but the father's hair was white, and the mother has already
started, which are similar to grandmother, grandmother, which alone
remained immutable and indestructible, always and forever sitting
at home, a dreamy relic, though, as they wait to return Felix.

But Felix seemed like Jacobus, to be lost from the Haide. For three years,
no customer and no Wandersmann .-- In the capital, where Benedict even
went to him to seek, he was nowhere to be found, and in the office told
him the firm Mens [75] from a large book that he was apart country has
gone, perhaps across the sea. The father heard already, by him to speak,
Martha had a child and had no thought of him, Haide the villagers knew
him and loved him not, as one, because once the davongegangen, the
grandmother asked only sometimes Jacobus: -- but the mother's heart
carried him unverwischt and painful in itself, since the days when he
pulled away and cried to her bosom - and the mother's heart carried
him into the house at night and morning on the fields - and the
mother's heart was it alone, which recognized him as one on Saturdays
by Whit Abendröthe a wildly foreign sonnverbrannter man wandered
came, the rod in hand, the Ränzlein on the back, and stopped before
Haide home.

"Felix" - "Mother!" A scream and a fall in the heart. The mother's heart
is the most beautiful place unverlierbarste and of the Son, even if it's
already gray hairs bear - and everybody in the whole universe has only
one such heart. The old woman broke down on him almost before sobbing,
and he, perhaps none has been more accustomed Thräne, let the stream
flow of his eyes, and lifted them up, and pressed them, and stroked
her hair gray, not seeing that the father and sister, and half
the village around they both stood. "Felix, Felix I, because where do you
come from?" she asked finally. "From Jerusalem, mother, and from the Jordan
Haide .-- God grüß 'you, Father, and God greet you, grandmother, now
a permanent' I long for you, and loved [76] is God, forever. "
"You see Jews enough, here to make you
feel at home?" he asked; and he added: "Well, we got some of 'em in
Chicago, too, I guess. This young man"--he twisted his head toward
Burnamy--"found you easy enough?"

"It was very good of him to meet us," Mrs. March began. "We didn't
expect--"

"Oh, that's all right," said Stoller, putting his toothpick back, and his
hat on. "We'd got through for the day; my doctor won't let me work all I
want to, here. Your husband's going to take the cure, they tell me. Well,
he wants to go to a good doctor, first. You can't go and drink these
waters hit or miss. I found that out before I came."

"Oh, no!" said Mrs. March, and she wished to explain how they had been
advised; but he said to Burnamy:

"I sha'n't want you again till ten to-morrow morning. Don't let me
interrupt you," he added patronizingly to Mrs. March. He put his hand up
toward his hat, and sauntered away out of the door.

Burnamy did not speak; and she only asked at last, to relieve the
silence, "Is Mr. Stoller an American?"

"Why, I suppose so," he answered, with an uneasy laugh. "His people were
German emigrants who settled in Southern Indiana. That makes him as much
American as any of us, doesn't it?"

Burnamy spoke with his mind on his French-Canadian grandfather, who had
come down through Detroit, when their name was Bonami; but Mrs. March
answered from her eight generations of New England ancestry. "Oh, for the
West, yes, perhaps," and they neither of them said anything more about
Stoller.

In their room, where she found March waiting for her amidst their
arriving baggage, she was so full of her pent-up opinions of Burnamy's
patron that she, would scarcely speak of the view from their windows of
the wooded hills up and down the Tepl. There is nothing under heaven which
is not in the ground, at sea or in the air, another subject sey. The fish,
the animals and the birds are subjected to their man, and stand
under her Gebott, the divine man, the master of them all, rulers
of this world and the Oceans, they umströmt, thoughtful soul with
a gifted, who have all hinaufsezt other animals, is not in this
single Stük Seyn less than she, he is master of his wife, and her
lawful lord, let's you is not angry, euern after his willingness
to vote.

Adriana.

And yet it is just this subservience , which moves you to stay
unverheurathet.

Luciana.

Not these servility, but the troubles and worries of a double bed.
Adriana. But if ye verheurathet wäret so wanted it but also have something
to commend. Luciana. Eh, I know the love of learning, will I have
to obey the art practice. Adriana. But what if your husband likes stayed
out of the house? Luciana. I would have patience, until he came home
again. Adriana. ungereizte A patient can easily Seyn patiently, it is not
Art Seyn good if you do not cause the opposite has Theil, we want to have
that Unglükliche that haunts his grief, to remain calm because Geschrey
beunruhiget us, but drükte us nemliche burden that we would be just as
much or even more complain more than him. You know, you did not unzärtlichen
spouse, you are grieved, weißst think of no consolation to others,
than that thou me hülfloser patience to instruct, but we want to
see how long you think this is silly patience will retain, if you's
experience, my fate to learn.

Luciana. Well, I will once a day verheurathen a sample to make. But here
comes your Sclave, his master is not far away Seyn. Zweyte Scene. (Dromio
of Ephesus on the former.)

Adriana. Say ', is now thy zaudernder Mr. Bey hand? Dromio of Ephesus.
No, he is Bey zwo hands of me, and these are my ears zwey witnesses.
Adriana. Say 'redtest you with him? Tell' er you his Meynung? Dromio
of Ephesus. Yes, yes, he told me his Meynung to my ear, thanks to his
hand It made me angry to begreiffen. Luciana. zweydeutig voice he was
so that you can not summarize his Meynung did? Dromio of Ephesus. No, he
just suggested it to his slaps in the face that I just did too good
seized, but said he zweydeutig so that I could hardly understand what
they should mean. Adriana. But tell, I pray thee, he will come home?

It seems he is much distressed about his wife to go to Seyn. Dromio.
insurance, women's, my Lord is not legally gescheidt, which has its
accuracy, as I asked him, he wants home to eat lunch, they ask 'he told
me after thousand marks of gold, it is dinner-time, says "I and my
gold, says' er; your eating dried up, says' I and my gold, says' it,
will you come home, says "I and my gold, says' it, where are the thousand
marks, which I gave thee, Galgenschwengel?

The piglet says 'I, is quite verbraten; my gold, says' he said. My wife
says I, to the gallows with your wife! I do not know who your wife is, for
the executioner with your wife! Luciana. Said who? Dromio. Did sir. I
know nothing says' he, no house and no wife and no woman, says'
it, so I do my Commission, my tongue should be abandoned, thanks
sey him!

at home wearing my shoulders, because in a word, he gave me shots.
Adriana. Geh du Sclave back again, and get him home. Dromio. Go back
and let you fight again? I ask 'you schönstens woman, another schikt
Envoy. Adriana. Back, Sclave, or I will give you the skull
entzweyschlagen. Dromio. And he will break with the other beats make
whole again, it will go well. Adriana. Pake thee, thou rascal verbose,
Mr hohl your home. Dromio . Am I so round with you as you with me,
that ye me like a ball before you stoßt? Your stoßt me away, and it will
be me again zurükstossen; when I in such a service should ausdauren, must
have a leather Case can be made about me. (He goes anyway.) Third
Scene. Luciana. Fy how this impatience your disfigured face! Adriana. He
can be his favorite of his pleasant society is not bereft, and I must,
however daheim sizen, and starvation after a Yours Blik languish. Has
since the age of the attractive beauty of made my poor cheek? If it is,
so he has corrupted them. Is my conversation dry, and my blunt Wiz?
His unkindness is the hard marble, which he has lost his sharpness.
Gefallen andre him better because they are beautiful aufgepuzt? That's
not my fault, he is Lord of my fortune. What remains can be found in
me, which he has not done?

Would not a single sonnichter Blik from him, my withered beauty back?
March, shamelessly abandoning the party of the
aristocracy, "prefer the manners of the lower classes."

"Oh, yes," he admitted. "The only manners we have at home are black ones.
But you mustn't lose courage. Perhaps the nobility are not always so
baronial."

"I don't know whether we have manners at home," she said, "and I don't
believe I care. At least we have decencies."

"Don't be a jingo," said her husband.


XXVII.

Though Stoller had formally discharged Burnamy from duty for the day, he
was not so full of resources in himself, and he had not so general an
acquaintance in the hotel but he was glad to have the young fellow make
up to him in the reading-room, that night. He laid down a New York paper
ten days old in despair of having left any American news in it, and
pushed several continental Anglo-American papers aside with his elbow, as
he gave a contemptuous glance at the foreign journals, in Bohemian,
Hungarian, German, French, and Italian, which littered the large table.

"I wonder," he said, "how long it'll take'em, over here, to catch on to
our way of having pictures?"

Burnamy had come to his newspaper work since illustrated journalism was
established, and he had never had any shock from it at home, but so
sensitive is youth to environment that, after four days in Europe, the
New York paper Stoller had laid down was already hideous to him. From the
politic side of his nature, however, he temporized with Stoller's
preference. "I suppose it will be some time yet."

"I wish," said Stoller, with a savage disregard of expressed sequences
and relevancies, "I could ha' got some pictures to send home with that
letter this afternoon: something to show how they do things here, and be
a kind of object-lesson." This term had come up in a recent campaign when
some employers, by shutting down their works, were showing their
employees what would happen if the employees voted their political
opinions into effect, and Stoller had then mastered its meaning and was
fond of using it. "I'd like 'em to see the woods around here, that the
city owns, and the springs, and the donkey-carts, and the theatre, and
everything, and give 'em some practical ideas."

Burnamy made an uneasy movement.

"I'd 'a' liked to put 'em alongside of some of our improvements, and show
how a town can be carried on when it's managed on business principles."

"Why didn't you think of it?"

"Really, I don't know," said Burnamy, with a touch of impatience.

They had not met the evening before on the best of terms. Stoller had
expected Burnamy twenty-four hours earlier, and had shown his displeasure
with him for loitering a day at Leipsic which he might have spent at
Carlsbad; and Burnamy had been unsatisfactory in accounting for the
delay. But he had taken hold so promptly and so intelligently that by
working far into the night, and through the whole forenoon, he had got
Stoller's crude mass of notes into shape, and had sent off in time for
the first steamer the letter which was to appear over the proprietor's
name in his paper. It was a sort of rough but very full study of the
Carlsbad city government, the methods of taxation, the municipal
ownership of the springs and the lands, and the public control in
everything. It condemned the aristocratic constitution of the
municipality, but it charged heavily in favor of the purity, beneficence,
and wisdom of the administration, under which there was no poverty and no
idleness, and which was managed like any large business.

Stoller had sulkily recurred to his displeasure, once or twice, and
Burnamy suffered it submissively until now. But now, at the change in
Burnamy's tone, he changed his manner a little.

"Seen your friends since supper?" he asked.

"Only a moment. They are rather tired, and they've gone to bed."

That the fellow that edits that book you write for?"

"Yes; he owns it, too."

The notion of any sort of ownership moved Stoller's respect, and he asked
more deferentially, "Makin' a good thing out of it?"

"A living, I suppose. Some of the high-class weeklies feel the
competition of the ten-cent monthlies. But 'Every Other Week' is about
the best thing we've got in the literary way, and I guess it's holding
its own."

"Have to, to let the editor come to Carlsbad," Stoller said, with a
return to the sourness of his earlier mood. "I don't know as I care much
for his looks; I seen him when he came in with you. No snap to him." He
clicked shut the penknife he had been paring his nails with, and started
up with the abruptness which marked all his motions, mental and physical;
as he walked heavily out of the room he said, without looking at Burnamy,
"You want to be ready by half past ten at the latest."

Stoller's father and mother were poor emigrants who made their way to the
West with the instinct for sordid prosperity native to their race and
class; and they set up a small butcher shop in the little Indiana town
where their son was born, and throve in it from the start. He could
remember his mother helping his father make the sausage and head-cheese
and pickle the pigs' feet, which they took turns in selling at as great a
price as they could extort from the townspeople. She was a good and
tender mother, and when her little Yawcup, as the boys called Jacob in
mimicry after her, had grown to the school-going age, she taught him to
fight the Americans, who stoned him when he came out of his gate, and
mobbed his home-coming; and mocked and tormented him at play-time till
they wore themselves into a kindlier mind toward him through the
exhaustion of their invention. No one, so far as the gloomy, stocky,
rather dense little boy could make out, ever interfered in his behalf;
and he grew up in bitter shame for his German origin, which entailed upon
him the hard fate of being Dutch among the Americans. He hated his native
speech so much that he cried when he was forced to use it with his father
and mother at home; he furiously denied it with the boys who proposed to
parley with him in it on such terms as "Nix come arouce in de Dytchman's
house." He disused it so thoroughly that after his father took him out of
school, when he was old enough to help in the shop, he could not get back
to it. He regarded his father's business as part of his national
disgrace, and at the cost of leaving his home he broke away from it, and
informally apprenticed himself to the village blacksmith and wagon-maker.
When it came to his setting up for himself in the business he had chosen,
he had no help from his father, who had gone on adding dollar to dollar
till he was one of the richest men in the place.

Jacob prospered too; his old playmates, who had used him so cruelly, had
many of them come to like him; but as a Dutchman they never dreamt of
asking him to their houses when they were young people, any more than
when they were children. He was long deeply in love with an American girl
whom he had never spoken to, and the dream of his life was to marry an
American. He ended by marrying the daughter of Pferd the brewer, who had
been at an American school in Indianapolis, and had come home as
fragilely and nasally American as anybody. She made him a good, sickly,
fretful wife; and bore him five children, of whom two survived, with no
visible taint of their German origin.

In the mean time Jacob's father had died and left his money to his son,
with the understanding that he was to provide for his mother, who would
gladly have given every cent to him and been no burden to him, if she
could. He took her home, and cared tenderly for her as long as she lived;
and she meekly did her best to abolish herself in a household trying so
hard to be American. She could not help her native accent, but she kept
silence when her son's wife had company; and when her eldest
granddaughter began very early to have American callers, she went out of
the room; they would not have noticed her if she had staid.

Before this Jacob had come forward publicly in proportion to his
financial importance in the community. He first commended himself to the
Better Element by crushing out a strike in his Buggy Works, which were
now the largest business interest of the place; and he rose on a wave of
municipal reform to such a height of favor with the respectable classes
that he was elected on a citizens' ticket to the Legislature. In the
reaction which followed he was barely defeated for Congress, and was
talked of as a dark horse who might be put up for the governorship some
day; but those who knew him best predicted that he would not get far in
politics, where his bull-headed business ways would bring him to ruin
sooner or later; they said, "You can't swing a bolt like you can a
strike."

When his mother died, he surprised his old neighbors by going to live in
Chicago, though he kept his works in the place where he and they had
grown up together. His wife died shortly after, and within four years he
lost his three eldest children; his son, it was said, had begun to go
wrong first. But the rumor of his increasing wealth drifted back from
Chicago; he was heard of in different enterprises and speculations; at
last it was said that he had bought a newspaper, and then his boyhood
friends decided that Jake was going into politics again.

In the wider horizons and opener atmosphere of the great city he came to
understand better that to be an American in all respects was not the
best. His mounting sense of importance began to be retroactive in the
direction of his ancestral home; he wrote back to the little town near
Wurzburg which his people had come from, and found that he had relatives
still living there, some of whom had become people of substance; and
about the time his health gave way from life-long gluttony, and he was
ordered to Carlsbad, he had pretty much made up his mind to take his
younger daughters and put them in school for a year or two in Wurzburg,
for a little discipline if not education. He had now left them there, to
learn the language, which he had forgotten with such heart-burning and
shame, and music, for which they had some taste.

The twins loudly lamented their fate, and they parted from their father
with open threats of running away; and in his heart he did not altogether
blame them. The inner rage choked his tears. He was like a Halbschlummer.
Suddenly he led upwards. He heard voices outside: the plaintive whimper
of the ancients and their imperious, indignant outcry of amazement.
The door was set off, and she stood before him: hochaufgerichtet in great
toilet, her arms and shoulders bare beautiful, anger in the eyes and the
red lips. "Who is here? - You - What do you want here? - Who have you
allowed -" He went to meet them. All the rage that night broke off
in it. When she saw his eyes, she knew everything.

But she had no fear.

She knew no fear and her lips moved quietly and scornfully. What he saw,
he picked them for the poor. He knew not what he should do with her,
he knew only that he wanted revenge on this creature, which robbed him.
It bent like a cat under the pressure of his rough hands. And in this same
place, on which they are on that first evening together in sought-clusions
of love, she wrestled in contrary hatred. Abused by his wrists and
flowed blood stained the silk of her dress and her soft, brown skin,
while their lips outrageous insults that he did not understand, on its
own cast. Again and again he tried it niederzuzwingen, and again flew
up her slender body like a whip in his hands. It was as if his strength
had given to them in these few months. .. Was it that, or was it the smell
of it stunned him out and that he could not get down - short, he felt
that he also had become the weak ...

Because he gave them free and stumbled out, followed by her triumphant and
scornful laughter. 5 Until the morning he walked through the streets.
When it dawned, he according to the direction of the north. At six
clock he was at the gates of the factory and the first, occurred. He went
into the mechanical workshop. At one of the vices he stood a short
time. When he came back, he held the broken wrist in his hand. Yet almost
one hour he walked through the deserted streets of this area. Somewhere
he threw the bracelet at a rubbish heap. Then he washed in a fountain's
hands, joined the bleeding into joints and drank a distillation of a cup
of coffee. At seven, he was a clock in his work. On the morning he
spoke not a word. At noon he led back home, threw himself on his bed
and slept like a dead man. When he awoke, it was a new day dawned. With
him began a new life for Franz fields .-- If the life which he proposes
one years before his new, major goals of the Spring Championship had a
simple and abstinence was, it was the one he now lived, nor spartanly
however to be mentioned. It zerfloß between work and rest, and his only
purpose was for the time being fields: the Wiedererringung his strength.
Not what other people call the health and strength.

The vast majority would have him for his envy. No, that superior, Herculean
strength, he had need. Therefore, he stressed from one another all the
days of his life, which he believed, they also just reduced to a minimum:
the glass and the woman, as was both toxic and disease; every movement,
because he took the necessary time to rest, every joy, because he wanted
her to know nothing more, and to make sure, he pointed out everything at
once! The only thing he still treat delights in, as was a good and nutritious
diet, and sometimes a glass of strong wine. And sleep, sleep a lot! -
The work was fond of him. She held his forces in balance, without having
to consume. In addition, she gave his life with the necessary regularity.
As he and his money to the end and totally dependent on them was watched
it before every unnecessary expenditure. He dressed up again as
before and watch themselves on holidays hardly on its outside. Why
should they? There no one saw him more. He was not bothered, its
withdrawal from the association 'Pike' this view. He occasionally
sent his jersey back. They had his name probably already from the
members list. What stood out to him - He never had touch with these
people had, in which it strange that he was only master of the swimmers
had been in Europe, the victory for him, but not for Losses could use.
He saw himself Koepke little more, and so tore also, the last band
that made him even to his former life continued.

When he met him occasionally, she drank a glass of beer together. Then
told the Old Faithful fields, as he "is also the swim Valet Case said,"
because it makes no fun anymore, since the fields would no longer be.
He was a merchant and a cone club and has already played in both his old
role of the load with undisguised delight animal further. Fields
smiled desperately. So he had said goodbye to the swimming! - The man
then said he - Well, you'd see ... yes, the new life he was not
difficult.

He thought little and he felt quite well. Only those long Sundays were
bad. It would be most like him was that they did not exist. If he can work
through it would have been all these weeks, a day like the others,
it would be right, he thought often. Now he had to deal with the Sundays
accept those endless afternoons, with whom he knew nothing to start,
and he was now even the one or other of his quiet time with parents and
siblings are, the more highly were astonished. But even that he soon,
because he knew nothing with them to talk. The domestic things bored
him, and about the one he could not speak, either with them or with
anyone in the world ... Who understands that? - He knew no one. So he
finally went to his lonely afternoons this way: to all the places where
it previously had been so happy and the now desolate and abandoned
under the eternally gray sky beaten. Because it wanted to spring this year
will not. A thin layer of ice still covered the Kochsee when he one day,
then through the columns of the fence festverschlossenen saw, and bare
and sad, and stared the scaffold planks of the other beaches in the
air - on Plötzensee and Grünau, where he also came, -- -bare and chilly
as the trees whose trunks are laublose motionless from the brown soil of
the landscape abhoben.

They agreed with him not happy, these solitary excursions, on which it
is always unforgettable memories in her new spell moved. But he knew
nothing else to do, and so he always went out and stood or often for
hours, absorbed in thought, on the abandoned sites of his victories
and his fortune ... it was only better than it was spring .-- The first
time he swam only rarely. He dared not interfere in the swimming pools,
of concern, there are true friends. He feared almost every question,
every word, every allusion to his defeat ... He would not endure. Then,
as he returned every evening after work, bathed, he avoided, with the
same care, as in previous years, the practice of clubs evenings and went
to the one-days here, on the other where he certainly could be possible
alone. So he visited spas all winter, just as it came. Only in those
small, dark hall in the south of the city, where he was one years before
had been visiting daily, he never ... These memories should stay buried
and could not disturb him now. He swam for the time being without
any thoughts of a new training.

Everything he wanted was his entire force wiederzufühlen before he thought
of them new to practice. He believed that in all seriousness, the
feeling of his power to have lost. Once become unsteady on her, he
imagined how the sick, the disease is always to have believed, from
which he hears. He was wrong in itself because he had begun, about it.
He was afraid to take the time to leave.

So he swam primarily in all sorts of styles and all sorts of lengths, as
it just came to mind, without regard for himself and his environment
must be ensured. And the enormous complacency, which he always felt when
he was in the water, grabbed him again, and every day more and
more ...

With the well-being but at the same time he felt his strength back, and
his exercises were serious, even if he had not yet examined. Then he
heard one evening, when his hundred meters for the third time really
geschwommen for themselves, like a Lord!

he did not know, but observed him and for his own pleasure after the clock
had seen, said: 1:21. 1:21? - But this was his own, previous good
time, which came close to the himself two years ago in Vienna, set up a
record as it was planned so shiny? - Then, then - yes, he held it back,
lost his power - then it went again yes! - He asked the stranger, him
yet again to take the time.

He swam one hundred meters for the fourth time, and deliberately without
special effort.

And his time was good .-- He rejoiced yet. He dared not. But in its
indiscriminate exercises from now came back from a certain sense. He swam
all the new styles and lengths of all, did take the time when he was the
lifeguard or any of the willing, we had, and still without a specific
training to kick, but he has proven - be careful and insecure as
a beginner - his skill.

Gradually, he was calm, he was ever more secure.

He could no longer pretend that his dreadful fright after those
first, basically petty defeats foolish and exaggerated, and that a
serious shock of his strength probably never been the case was that
a few weeks quiet life they might quite naturally in The old track
had brought, and so really this whole break in the reasons for
unnecessary and slightly ridiculous and that was really embarrassing
...

But one thing remained, despite everything.

Although his force was not shaken his confidence, it was in any case -
this proud self-confidence, were not in an hour, but shy from
empfangsfähigem ground and slowly emporgewachsen steadily watered
only by small, then fed by ever greater success, striking root in
unprecedented victories and finally inseparable, nature, and one,
with the personality to work with him, him - Franz fields - This
Insichselbstvertrauen was shocked.

Not his strength, his confidence so he had to win again!

- This was the life, as it resulted in the least suitable.

Unable to draw comparisons, to receive impressions and play, he
could only feed on the dimensions of his imagination .

And with each new victory _About sich_ erfochtenen his strength took it
dimensions of the fields had not previously thought. Even for the simple
reason not thought, because he previously geschwommen as best he could,
without thinking. Figures were, he now compared: numbers against
numbers. Not benefits - warm services of life - in exchange for benefits.
How he longed for the day on which the return for the first time would
be possible - then he would live again. For this life of solitude, as
he is now, was no longer living. He suffered from his own loneliness.
How much he suffered, he did not even once more. He was always alone, and
gradually it came to him like a dream: the old, dear friends, the loud,
joyful celebrations, his sensational victory - they were in fact ever
reality been? - The frenzy of his safety, his adventures, his travels -
he did not want to think of the past. He wanted to prepare for the future.
Because everything was still before him. Behind him was only a beginning,
an end in its early failure. But what he could not stop, was that some
pictures in front of him this past ascents, and especially pictures of
last year, the time when he no longer quite so and even in the
narrow circles of comrades lived, but new, strange people and other
life opened wide to him.

And yet sometimes he saw the high, cold studio of the sculptor in front of
him, the bare walls and the strange characters, and the artist
himself, schweißbedeckt, schweratmend and inner struggles desperately
painful, and the warm, cozy rooms of the doctor, the cheerful, friendly
man with flashing eyes and animated voice, never stop telling and full of
interest for him, and sometimes - he also saw it ... But as quickly turned
his thoughts. He wanted nothing more of it and forced himself to forget.
And only in his dreams caused him sometimes even how it was done.

But those dreams were rarer and rarer, and finally disappeared
entirely, as their scent gradually diminished from his clothes was
this disgusting perfume, which had poisoned his body.

And finally, the figures were paler and paler and disappeared completely,
as it wanted to fields . Everything that is behind him, was unsubstantial
and lost his last power itself on his memory. Did he ever experienced
- often he could hardly believe. But he said but Francis Fields - He
was still there, which bore this name - but who asked after him,
he knew he was forgotten.

He was no longer Franz fields, even if it was so. It was a name that he
should conquer. And he would conquer him, which he was safer with every
days. For if he was forgotten, yet he lived. Still, he was not dead! 6
If you forgot him - _er_ had forgotten nothing. Throughout the German
swimmer, there was no world, with the potential of the eye in all
its operations had not, the more haste after the reports at hand,
when Franz fields. No incident of any importance escaped him. He read all
the magazines, which somehow came in, he was informed about all events
and on the progress of each. No new name has remained alien to him, no
victory of any significance is unknown. It was his job to some long, lonely
evenings through sports magazines, old and new, and comparisons over
comparisons between what has been done and was done - by He himself
was always inwardly secure. As the first major summer swimming swimming
in the Berlin Federal approaches, it urged him to take part with power.
But he is defeated and thought of the oath, which he himself in despair
that night did. No, he did not! - What he wanted to do - not Berlin,
not Germany, Europe should see it. There was only one occasion. He
had to expect. Still, his hours have come. He remained distant. But it
was difficult to him.

For the first time he saw the price of his hometown on the short stretch
of four years ago, his first major victory and that he has every year
claimed in foreign ownership transferred. Voluntarily, he gave the
championship from the hands of Berlin, and his name forgotten new price!

At the verge of the open space a group of
pretty serving-maids, each with her name on a silver band pinned upon her
breast, met them and bade them a 'Guten Morgen' of almost cheerful note,
but gave way, to an eager little smiling blonde, who came pushing down
the path at sight of Burnamy, and claimed him for her own.

"Ah, Lili! We want an extra good table, this morning. These are some
American Excellencies, and you must do your best for them."

"Oh, yes," the girl answered in English, after a radiant salutation of
the Marches; "I get you one."

"You are a little more formerly, to-day, and I didn't had one already."

She ran among the tables along the edge of the western edge of the
gallery, and was far beyond hearing his protest that he was not earlier
than usual when she beckoned him to the table she had found. She had
crowded it in between two belonging to other girls, and by the time her
breakfasters came up she was ready for their order, with the pouting
pretence that the girls always tried to rob her of the best places.
Burnamy explained proudly, when she went, that none of the other girls
ever got an advantage of her; she had more custom than any three of them,
and she had hired a man to help her carry her orders. It was something
that no other man could save it. He was the master of the water. He
had his club to help his old reputation. More: he had his own name
with the famous far beyond the previous limits.

His debt was paid.

The poor boy was a young man, with all the pride and admiration saw
no need to suffer longer needed, so many were the helpful hands,
which he entgegenstreckten.

No, it was not right that he achieved what he wanted. Never had he so
highly desired.

He was then taken, but he never dared to yearn. And so he was taken that
he had to ask: where to now?

- So much had he reached him that nothing more remained to be desired.
What path led yet also on the level at which he stood - because there
appeared to him to say of course. The world called his name. He only
forgot two things: that the world he so called it, only an infinitely
small part of the real world was - if it was also the world in which he
lived, and that even this small part of people who have it today anstaunten
and celebrated, perhaps in his mind tomorrow, but it sure tomorrow would
have forgotten. But as he his cause has always been alone as the only key
was released, so the world he could never really measure it because
everyone else has always had lacked scale.

So he gradually came to be interpreted as meaning that it only under
a single point of view to see now and then, logically, as its center
of view.

The only thing he still really did was that he is now the height
of his power had reached .

Beyond them he could no longer. Surpassed him, yes it was only some
other, so it was made. It was, therefore, to maintain this level. It
was now his next target.

But it was no longer objective, which fascinated him. Therefore, he was
now, at the height, no longer as happy as he was when he climbed
it and each of its movements of a thousand eyes looked prosecuted.

But he was happy still.

That one day, had liked it long enough to even say where he had to descend
to another place to do that he knew. Moreover, there was no deception.
That was as safe as the death. But he never thought to this day. He did
not want to - He stood up and looked down on the way that he made. And
from the depth to him heraufklang heady jubilation and envy the same
heavily in his ears .-- During this period that brought the largest and
most prestigious sports newspaper of the world, the name "World Sport"
does not have resulted in injustice, yet his picture and told its readers
with the simple story of his life and the story of his unprecedented
success. The biography could not be more than the simple reproduction
of plain facts. The picture was a reproduction of exquisite photography.
She showed the champion of Europe in the chest image, clothed, and in
addition to the very highest honors only a small, simple - and perhaps
the highest of all - barely recognizable next to the heavy medals
of gold and silver, the small coin, the he was honored as the first once,
many years ago, brought by a person's life saved. The picture even
showed a serious, beautiful and proud face. It was no longer the face of
the boy. That was only the strange train of determination around the
mouth, and was unchanged or slightly low, defiant face. But the
softness, the rounding of the cheeks and chin, and especially the good-natured,
trusting view of the blue eyes were gone and a serious expression of early
genres, so that the face gained in importance, which it had lost kindness.
It was the face of a man has become the calm, confident and
determined in constant vigilance and to look into the distance,
so that no one is too close to him come, and the expression of a
defense is always ready, in his fearless audacity superseded what
the face of lack of deeper spiritual intelligence.

At the moment the recording was so vivid he become that he is
peculiarly lively and interesting.

It was still a friendly face, but the gracious, good face of the
boy was not there anymore. A different picture, however - from the same
time - which the champion swimmer in full figure and the Jersey
shoreline, and on the face of the body resigned disturbed in any
line.

It was a picture of a wonderfully secure and evenly developed, the life
still completely untouched, very single force in the security of
their youth victory. 14 With heavy feet, we go through the heavy
soil.

Is eternal in us the desire to let us know they can collect, and
even in death, we ask that they let us be easy.

Because it is difficult to us as life itself. But we can not fly. Envied
the birds we see after that are in the air, which for us is too easy.
Difficult to earth, the air is too easy. But we can swim. Between Heaven
and Earth weighs us the water. Semi pulls us down, it helps us halfway
up. We are still not up, but we are no longer below. It gives us forgetting:
forgetting the earth, and the idea in the sky, when it carries us. We
do not have wings, but we feel the gravity of the earth no more.
Wunderbares Element - Why have we made thee that all of our homeland
and the cradle was, fled to the earth?

- Why are we not in your quiet, dream-free, blissful depths stayed,
instead of the noise, the dust and the struggle of the soil to occur?

- Why we wheeze from severe lung, rather effortlessly from gills
to breathe easy?

- Because we heat, light and life needed? - Oh, the warmth of the earth is
burning embers, light dazzles our eyes, and most of us is unbearable life.
There below was cool, dusk and dream. But we wanted to go: up from the
depths of the earth. And then we wanted to higher and higher, from the
earth into the sky. We can not.

And eat us in the eternal longing that is not up and down no more.
Wunderbares element - Most of you have forgotten. How strange you are
they now that they fear you have. And rather than to entrust to you,
look out with anguished eyes upon thee, and tremble before the
contact with you.

With you - With you, you wear them and weigh them and want to give
a new life, you make the dust from the eyes and the agony of heart,
and wash them just drop it if they, stupid and unruly, you abuse
with crude gestures and clumsy fists, and the impossible heischend
in the sky you are looking for.

You all who forget that you were not treated like a slave to his wish, and
you verdenken when the Free appalled at the anger and the load of
unsolicited abschüttelt and buries itself. But not all have forgotten
you. In the few still alive Longing for you continue as the demand for the
purity of the dirt, and when they come to you, so you take them into
the arms, weigh them, kiss them and thousands of times each vergiltst
its still so clumsy cuddled. And who are you looking to own was the
desire to heaven and returns not only on the earth, because it gave her
dust and nourishes him, the return back to you whenever he can, which
is to become your own Lifetime ... One of these was Franz few fields.
As little small, thick Kinderfäuste of Mutterbrustgelöst had him the
first independent living request to the broad field of the earth,
but in the silent depths of the water withdrawn.

And the water had received him as his own child, had him instructed
in the art of life, petted him, him on all of the hated earth trying
to snatch, the longing for itself to all kind of fed up, he had
become his own with body and soul.

It was his first game and his comrade had remained single. So, it was
his first friend, and in the hour when he was still almost a child, an
overly hasty jumps to a deep laceration on a nail, which he grazed in
the arm tore, and his blood with the water mingled, drank it, it was
between them, the blood brotherhood, which could only solve with
his life.

The wound was healed, the water as it healed by itself, but the
friendship between them had somehow obtained their consecration,
and all its pain and wounds of young Franz fortab contributed to
his friends and let them heal from him, the open and silent.

Now the water had become his enemies. They wrestled with each other,
but it was not the more childish game of the moment, forgotten the
next.

The boys are liable Balgerei was a serious measuring the forces have
become. But it was still full of fight achtung two opponents, both before
and after him to shake hands with each other and go without any
grudges.

Still there was the full harmony of unity between them. Third, part 1, Franz
fields still lived with his parents.

Although no longer in the dull basement, where he spent part of his youth,
but still in a Hofwohnung without much light and heat. He had his own room.
Here were all his trophies. The prizes, which consisted in goods and not
in possession of the club were transferred there and the club room was
decorated, he had part of his mother left with them the meager
poverty in the front living room to hide examined.

There stood the great beer service, the fruit bowl from Cuivre, the
smoke table and much more - things that are often more than the
good will of the tastes of its founders made honor.

But everything else he achieved in his many battles, was here in
his own small room in the shape dorrender laurel wreaths, and more
or less artistically executed diplomas on the walls, and the colorful
loops glowed golden inscriptions.

Up to the low ceiling hung it up, and the bed was almost no more space
for new comers. Even had it long fields have to forget all his deeds
frame it. On the chest of drawers in a big glass box - the gift of a
friend's club, a carpenter, for Christmas - were on red Sammetunterlage
all his medals, gold and silver, large and small, all of its loops,
a collection of no small value.

It was his highest pride! - What he does not love to the festivities
out piece by piece to make it, one after another, on his breast
to attach, with which he does not care, each in its right place!

- With each new victory crazy the acquisition of new space and
the position of others, and in ever new group camped around the heavy,
round gold pieces, the first victory of the small crowd of satellites,
known all equal, all equally loved.

For each continued to be an unforgettable memory. So many were they
become that they are no longer on the broad chest of the champion
swimmer found the place.

In his last photograph, he contributed only the main course - the broad
bands around the neck and the big gold and silver coins to the
rock beats, and the others were on a shield arranged in series,
based on a kind of easel next to him stood on the He appealed the
hand.

The whole image of the Siegers beutebeladenen also soon appeared in a
sports newspaper and practiced in some places on an ignorant layman
exhilarating effect that was not the intention.

This image emblazoned in the small office, except for him and what images
there to see was that it only it was always represents: Franz fields. Since
he was a little boy with his life-saving medal on the chest, thick
and seriously, as a young member of the S.

-CB 1879 with the bright cap and the character of his first victory on
the chest, and a year later than neugebackener Berliner Meister -
yet without a band around the neck, but already crowned with a first
price and with that strange train around the mouth, which none of
the later pictures more missing.

Finally, all these images of the later years, recorded in all the
different cities, where he was with the photographer put him in
detention or even fast forward to the box, before he went into the
water, always a couple of inch bigger, something more assertive in
the attitude, the more the number of characters on his chest grew
- they were all but this last one, where the number of honor had
become so great that he no longer load their own could carry ...

And there were other pictures, group shots, to which he never missed:
only more on the side, fastversteckt among others, then more and
more attention in the rent until the middle of his person even
formed - these recordings, executed for the most Parts of some
amateur photographers, more or less well done, but each of them an
affectionate remembrance of the happy hours of a trip, an event of
the club, full of laughter and always outshines unversiegbaren by
the cheerfulness of youth.

And finally, the pictures that represent him under his swimming
competitions in the recordings, as lately in the main swimming
were usually done before you went to the starting line.

All names, except in the swimming world in recent years were called, were
there representing all the more or less dangerous opponents, all
with whom he, Francis Fields, struggled, all that he had defeated
...

He knew them all and smiled when his gaze rested on their faces. In the
moments of the recording is quiet, almost indifferent - how they were
changed every few minutes later, where it and it went off! - How
different was this naked, but with the jersey clad figures: one
long and high like a aufgeschossen Tower and sinewy like a horse,
the other short and stocky with powerful thighs and a phenomenal
chest width, with the third smooth and slender, almost nothing in
his power away, and it was always fields, the third was like this.

In all his pictures were beautiful, slender figure erect and quite
high among the others, and his eyes serious and courageous lent his
face a train of passion and intelligence, the man in vain to those
of the other was looking ...

Finally, filled a corner of the room a big pile of programs and
newspapers: the programs of the contest, in which he participated,
and the newspapers that had reported on them.

"I don't believe I can quite make it out myself. But fancy a man that
began to act at twenty, quite unconsciously of course, from the past
experience of the whole race--"

"He would be rather a dreadful person, wouldn't he?"

"Rather monstrous, yes," he owned, with a laugh. "But that's where the
psychological interest would come in."

As if she did not feel the notion quite pleasant she turned from it. "I
suppose you've been writing all sorts of things since you came here."

"Well, it hasn't been such a great while as it's seemed, and I've had Mr.
Stoller's psychological interests to look after."

"Oh, yes! Do you like him?"

"I don't know. He's a lump of honest selfishness. He isn't bad. You know
where to have him. He's simple, too."

"You mean, like Mr. March?"

"I didn't mean that; but why not? They're not of the same generation, but
Stoller isn't modern."

"I'm very curious to see him," said the girl.

"Do you want me to introduce him?"

"You can introduce him to papa."

They stopped and looked across the curve of the mounting path, down on
March, who had sunk on a way-side seat, and was mopping his forehead. He
saw them, and called up: "Don't wait for me. I'll join you, gradually."

"I don't want to lose you," Burnamy called back, but he kept on with Miss
Triscoe. "I want to get the Hirschensprung in," he explained. "It's the
cliff where a hunted deer leaped down several hundred feet to get away
from an emperor who was after him."

"Oh, yes. They have them everywhere."

"Do they? Well, anyway, there's a noble view up there."

There was no view on the way up. The Germans' notion of a woodland is
everywhere that of a dense forest such as their barbarous tribes
primevally herded in. It means the close-set stems of trees, with their
tops interwoven in a roof of boughs and leaves so densely that you may
walk dry through it almost as long as a German shower lasts. When the sun
shines there is a pleasant greenish light in the aisles, shot here and
there with the gold that trickles through. There is nothing of the
accident of an American wood in these forests, which have been watched
and weeded by man ever since they burst the soil. They remain nurseries,
but they have the charm which no human care can alienate. The smell of
their bark and their leaves, and of the moist, flowerless earth about
their roots, came to March where he sat rich with the memories of his
country-bred youth, and drugged all consciousness of his long life in
cities since, and made him a part of nature, with dulled interests and
dimmed perspectives, so that for the moment he had the enjoyment of
exemption from care. There was no wild life to penetrate his isolation;
no birds, not a squirrel, not an insect; an old man who had bidden him
good-morning, as he came up, kept fumbling at the path with his hoe, and
was less intrusive than if he had not been there.

March thought of the impassioned existence of these young people playing
the inevitable comedy of hide and seek which the youth of the race has
played from the beginning of time. The other invalids who haunted the
forest, and passed up and down before him in fulfilment of their several
prescriptions, had a thin unreality in spite of the physical bulk that
prevailed among them, and they heightened the relief that the
forest-spirit brought him from the strenuous contact of that young drama.
He had been almost painfully aware that the persons in it had met,
however little they knew it, with an eagerness intensified by their brief
separation, and he fancied it was the girl who had unconsciously operated
their reunion in response to the young man's longing, her will making
itself electrically felt through space by that sort of wireless
telegraphy which love has long employed, and science has just begun to
imagine.

He would have been willing that they should get home alone, but he knew
that his wife would require an account of them from him, and though he
could have invented something of the kind, if it came to the worst, he
was aware that it would not do for him to arrive without them. The
thought goaded him from his seat, and he joined the upward procession of
his fellow-sick, as it met another procession straggling downward; the
ways branched in all directions, with people on them everywhere, bent
upon building up in a month the health which they would spend the rest of
the year in demolishing.

He came upon his charges unexpectedly at a turn of the path, and Miss
Triscoe told him that he ought to have been with them for the view from
the Hirschensprung. It was magnificent, she said, and she made Burnamy
corroborate her praise of it, and agree with her that it was worth the
climb a thousand times; he modestly accepted the credit she appeared
willing to give him, of inventing the Hirschensprung.


XXXI.

Between his work for Stoller and what sometimes seemed the
obstructiveness of General Triscoe, Burnamy was not very much with Miss
Triscoe. He was not devout, but he went every Sunday to the pretty
English church on the hill, where he contributed beyond his means to the
support of the English clergy on the Continent, for the sake of looking
at her back hair during the service, and losing himself in the graceful
lines which defined, the girl's figure from the slant of her flowery hat
to the point where the pewtop crossed her elastic waist. One happy
morning the general did not come to church, and he had the fortune to
walk home with her to her pension, where she lingered with him a moment,
and almost made him believe she might be going to ask him to come in.

The next evening, when he was sauntering down the row of glittering shops
beside the Tepl, with Mrs. March, they overtook the general and his
daughter at a place where the girl was admiring some stork-scissors in
the window; she said she wished she were still little, so that she could
get them. They walked home with the Triscoes, and then he hurried Mrs.
March back to the shop. The man had already put up his shutters, and was
just closing his door, but Burnamy pushed in, and asked to look at the
stork-scissors they had seen in the window. The gas was out, and the
shopman lighted a very dim candle, to show them.

"I knew you wanted to get them for her, after what she said, Mrs. March,"
he laughed, nervously, "and you must let me lend you the money."

"Why, of course!" she answered, joyfully humoring his feint. "Shall I put
my card in for the man to send home to her with them?"

"Well--no. No. Not your card--exactly. Or, yes! Yes, you must, I
suppose."

They made the hushing street gay with their laughter; the next evening
Miss Triscoe came upon the Marches and Burnamy where they sat after
supper listening to the concert at Pupp's, and thanked Mrs. March for the
scissors. Then she and Burnamy had their laugh again, and Miss Triscoe
joined them, to her father's frowning mystification. He stared round for
a table; they were all taken, and he could not refuse the interest
Burnamy made with the waiters to bring them one and crowd it in. He had
to ask him to sup with them, and Burnamy sat down and heard the concert
through beside Miss Triscoe.

"What is so tremendously amusing in a pair of stork-scissors?" March
demanded, when his wife and he were alone.

"Why, I was wanting to tell you, dearest," she began, in a tone which he
felt to be wheedling, and she told the story of the scissors.

"Look here, my dear! Didn't you promise to let this love-affair alone?"

"That was on the ship. And besides, what would you have done, I should
like to know? Would you have refused to let him buy them for her?" She
added, carelessly, "He wants us to go to the Kurhaus ball with him."

"Oh, does he!"

"Yes. He says he knows that she can get her father to let her go if we
will chaperon them. And I promised that you would."

"That I would?"

"It will do just as well if you go. And it will be very amusing; you can
see something of Carlsbad society."

"But I'm not going!" he declared. "It would interfere with my cure. The
sitting up late would be bad enough, but I should get very hungry, and I
should eat potato salad and sausages, and drink beer, and do all sorts of
unwholesome things."

"Nonsense! The refreshments will be 'kurgemass', of course."

"You can go yourself," he said.

A ball is not the same thing for a woman after fifty as it is before
twenty, but still it has claims upon the imagination, and the novel
circumstance of a ball in the Kurhaus in Carlsbad enhanced these for Mrs.
The meetings in the large studio in Wilmersdorf began. Although fields have
not worked more and more rest and sleep had, as before, but he was
already in the evening when he went to his training, from the extended
hours of meetings and of the long trips to the suburb tired than ever.
He had never thought that he could be so tired. Only had him interested
in the lengthy preparatory work, the new neighborhood and the whole
nature of the artist.

Then he saw himself more and more from the raw sound out, always
the same and similar.

When the hours of laborious preparation of the individual began, without
his untrained eyes could perceive any progress, because he
often had the whole force his will is needed to bearable. He had made
so long to stand up to the other even the wood from the hand set, but
if the artist - to one, after two hours - all in his work deepened and
completely removed, did not face a break allowed to occur, it was just
fields often so exhausted that he suddenly abandoned. Surprised at the
time, verflossen was the sculptor growled something that sounded like an
apology, and both threw in some chairs, glad not to need to talk to
each other. Because the right to an entertainment it never came between
them. These two then closed, with only themselves and their own objectives
people, none of them the ease and friendliness of Dr. King had had
nothing to say. Probably arose from a conversation and, as you take no
time to lose, now often also outside in a moderate restaurant ate together.
But if one or the other after so many hours together in silence
to the natural desire to express itself, this from his work and his
hopes, and also those of his plans and his hopes began, then they
could both be sure that they talked to each other and none of the
others just listened ...

After all, what did, what they understood each other - both as one-sided,
both so lost in their goals: not equal in their width and size, equal
only in its uniqueness and the energy with which they were prosecuted.
In one understood but they are totally, and this one gave them a long
time - far longer than thought ahead - together. Fields admired the tireless
zeal, the reluctant and yet so full of the artist's devotion to
his work, he understood it secretly painful, hot rings to Last,
never be fulfilled, and the manner in which it is expressed in
feverish work, perpetual grumbling curses and wild ...

And this, the artist, was fully aware that he had never been a model of how
this place ever had and would again, so with him to the mutual weariness
instinctively went and worked with him ... He had never said it, maybe
not even acknowledged, but in his manner expressed his gratitude
from clear: if he fields a cigarette and turned him from the depths
of his yearning artist said that he closed each other shyly.

Towards the end of the meetings he was even an idea on what this young
man had _sein_ life and what the next time meant for him.

Through chasms in their separate objectives, they are understood in what
they were like: the impetuous desire to achieve these goals. Two Flames
beat each other, and this was a wonderful plant to which they both gave
their forces. It came to an end. We succeeded .-- Even his field goal
came closer and closer. His jumps were safer and more secure. In his
club he said that neither the one nor the other. A narrative of one
price would be a type of others have been. He was silent, locked and
inaccessible than ever before. 6 One day he gave his hour for came. He
seemed - for a long time for the first time again - on the evening of
exercise clubs. The huge hall of the Friends of water was still brightly
lit, but except for the members of the S.-CB 1879 were almost no foreign
guests more present. The last is just clothed in the fund was already
closed and nobody was more accepted.

Everywhere you could see the white-blue colors. The pool was one for the
rest of the evening, only the club, which is twice weekly for its
members leased. Fields went off and came to one of the small boards, where
Grafenberger, the master Springer of Germany, also practiced. For
a while he saw him silently to. Grafenberg made a backward somersault
with a half twist. - I can even, said Fields. The others laughed: - So
easy nu nich! - But Fields could slow the cloth from his shoulders and
glide occurs at the outermost edge of the board . He stood with
his back to the water.

Slightly raised his body on the toes in the height, firmly put the arms
to the legs, and deep rear eigendlich over, he did the jump.

When he rose from the water, he saw astonished and amazed louder
faces.

Was astonished at himself Grafenberger And now this was a series of more
or less difficult jumps through, and when he rose from the water, Fields
was already on the board and made the leap, one after the other. The
astonishment was increasing, and most do not want to believe what they
saw. From the small springboard went to the big man over, and climbed all
the stairs up to the gallery.

There was soon the whole club to a man famous for his members around
and pursued in breathless tension jump to jump.

And there was not one among all the swimmers of the Springer had not.
Admittedly thought at this moment none of the evaluation of benefits
and few made clear how the outwardly identical jumps of the two
but in safety and accuracy himmel far different.

We just wanted to now see if fields ever been able to execute jumps, and
we fell for each new in ever greater excitement, which soon in laughter,
shouts and loud, quiet comments as any kind of air to make looking for.
Enjoyed the fields anticipation of future triumphs and put all questions
to receive mysterious silence. But when the Springer said: - Well, yes
I can swim too soon to begin - he smiled significant.

Only nail again said no word. But when he passed by fields and in front of
him stopped, he said in short: - You can get them all. Where you've
learned, I do not know me and it is indeed nothing. But not only believe
that you have even a properly can, as he should be ...-- what Fields was
pale and continued. He could only reply: - We will see! - His joy was
there for this evening and he began his old friend and teacher to hate.
Already at the next meeting, he and his claim appears at the next
opportunity in jumping to a major championship to be reported.

It was only for a joke, then rose up protests from all sides. So much had
already seen, to know that such a project was entirely futile.

It was amazing what he in his secret training - we now knew exactly
where and how he had come - in such a short time be brought, it
gave it all but still not long enough to master with the first to
engage in competition.

This was especially a long, steady, careful training under the eyes
of connoisseurs - that he should, the sports man, but probably best
know ...

From all sides we talked to him, sought to convince him, but it was
all in vain.

We spoke to ears that are no longer listening. Fields has stubbornly on
his claim. When he was asked at what point life he wanted to be, he
replied: for jumping to the championship ... and the more urgent the issue
was, the more sound that answer as a threat: either - or ... you did
not laugh anymore.

This was the thing too seriously. Too much was in this summer by swimming
in the game, the championship should be claimed by Germany, the biggest
on Europe for a second round of them, the great State Prize of Saxony
and the city of Wroclaw price for the third time through fields captured
in the final possession of the club over ; countless demands from all
sides after the young master's part in this life struggles had to be
answered - and this man what he did - instead of this summer's glorious
victory to renew effortlessly and honorable, he is obstinate in an
idea to which no other before him had come and to which only he was in
ruins. The more one penetrated to him from his hopeless projects
abzustehen, the more bitter he became. Since the reasons against his
message did not understand because he did not wanted to understand,
he saw in them only the outflow of a hostile attitude towards
themselves and gradually in the good old comrades and loyal friends
of his clubs opponents of his person and thus the case .

_er_ that because the matter with his plan could hurt, not because he
thought once. He - and the thing hurt! - One notion that not talking
with him was when he was on another night after a long, futile
debate simply left the room.

Then said Nagel, and what he said was the correct felt. He concluded
his remarks in which he is a short and clear picture of Felder's
evolution was marked with the words: "Are we doing it his will,
because what he needed in order for him to reflection, are not new
victories, but it is a thorough defeat. "- was the champion swimmer
of Europe from his club on the first swim this year's opening of
the united Berlin's clubs not only to his old championship in Berlin
over the short distance, but also to the main Mehrkampf in swimming,
jumping and diving and the main jumping reported, and these messages
were boundless surprise, but accepted without challenge. 7 A thorough
defeat!

And he experienced .-- The first great swimming in Berlin this
summer - organized by the Confederation of the Berlin clubs - fell
together with the ceremonial opening of this exhibition in the great
glass palace, both on a Sunday, a clear, but still fresh spring day
.-- There should be the day high and unprecedented triumph for him,
so thought fields, the day of all the other recent years the crown
up, his fame in the eyes of a world proclaim, as none before him,
here in a incomparable victories, then this victory is already
embodied in a large works, which bore his name, the day by which
he had fought as to no other, for months, a dogged perseverance -
not only in the iron work's own practice, but almost even more in
the arduous and grueling help the success of an alien.

There were all different, as he thought it .-- The morning brought
the first disappointment. They were driven out after the glass house
at Lehrter train station, he and two of his sporting friends, had the
card with the sculptor get admission without challenge and urged
the festively dressed quantity - anything that Berlin had an
intellectual life - the large entrance-hall.

They found it easy, what they studied. Because of the "Springer" was
around a dense cluster of people, all taken by the beauty and strength
of the work, and in the first hour is already his fame with their
unanimous admiration besiegelnd. And it was a magnificent work,
which here almost in the middle of the large hall, in the shining white
marble of the front of the green background of high leaf standing crops:
First is preparing to jump, not yet quite ready for him, stood the figure
of the young " Springer "in complete smooth beauty lightly on the toes up,
stretched out like beseechingly slender arms into the air to the body
impetus, and kept their eyes firmly and decisively addressed in
the distance - certainly the success, certainly in the near-victory
...

About the whole shape but was also in force all such grace, such a freshness
that is the cool scent of this perhaps just emerged of the water body
believed to feel that is now on a new and difficult jumps preparing
for the jersey and the only like a thin veil, enclosed behind a
delicate tissue of each muscle, so the veins which will seem obvious,
and although partially clothed with this veil, appeared at first
glance like the whole body naked, to the unutterable fine work of
the master granted, for the easy case was not an obstacle, the bare
life in his heat to form. - "Classically beautiful, yet modern
spirit of a soul" - "simply ingenious" - "just antique" - "where
he can Holton Model ?"

--" a masterpiece, without a doubt "- these were the expressions
associated with many other names and comparisons, of which he understood
nothing, Felder ears umschwirrten, as he deals with his companions closer
herangedrängt and now almost front of the statue stood.

He felt very uncomfortable. Everything was foreign to him here. Even
this work, his otherwise I, which he knew so exactly, it seemed
no longer the same.

Was he that? - So he is not on the board when he jumped? He alone among all
those present stood perhaps the beauty of your own body uncomprehendingly
to that he and his friends.

You, so much to the daily sight of naked figures used, were never on their
beauty and ugliness thought and art that are talked to them, they
understood nothing.

Fields himself was for the first time in an art exhibition, and the view
of the many other marble works in this high hall, in the long
flight of halls of whose walls the colors brightened countless
paintings, made him confused and robbed him.

Moreover, he was frustrated too much, as he quietly any consideration
would have to surrender.

He had this morning a very different thought. How, he knew himself well,
but something like this: that he had with the artist in front of the
statue would stand, all eyes are directed, rather than on the model, etc.
... But nothing of the sort happened. No one took care of him, we pushed
and pushed him from all sides, and if by chance someone that was him,
he had a sense, this looks to be asked: What do you want to here, how would
anyone but also in the fashionably dressed young man with a high collar
shirt and a stiff hat, which looked like a Commission of Hertzog
and Wertheim, the archetype of this bright young to recognize its beauty,
the thoughts of the viewer far back into the blissful times götter
same people?

displeasure fields called his friends to go on, he wanted to try, the
sculptor, and Dr.

King to be found.

The other two were willing: one had a thirst after a brunch, and
others also found that he had such a position in a Springer never
have seen.

Because - while they are hinausstießen - Fields suddenly felt as
he views was.

The strong scent of a strange perfume, which he somewhere and
sometime had ever felt, umwehte him, and aufschauend, he saw close
to those lady from the cafe, which it the whole evening was so
striking views, and now her gaze with the same fixed expression of
interest in research on his face let it rest, like that evening.

Again the old gentleman was with her, and then they wore a dress of light
silk, and a strikingly large Rembrandthut with black feather. Fields had
little time to look for her around, the next moment she was already
gone further, and many people had between them and pushed him.

He would have to return to it again.

He thought they still go, as he at the exit to the sculptor met,
also in a dense crowd of people stood.

He immediately came on and off fields when he saw him, and we went through
in the garden long after the course Osteria. There was now enough fields
and views from all sides, when the artists learned who he was, but
he was never going to feel that all these strange people in it only
saw the model, and had no idea who he really was ...

After Dr. King, it was not in vain in order, he was probably still in the
halls or even not yet come. The sculptor, outwardly laconic and bristly
as ever, but was due to its great success and had aroused anew always
free to bring a few words with fields to speak. This would like to
know whether his name would be in the catalog. No, there was only "the
Springer," the artist smiled, otherwise it would not, but he would
have to ensure that in as many newspapers to read it, who confessed
his model - that could leave fields .. .

"And on the afternoon I come to _Ihrem_ victory!"

- Said he still, as fields with his friends and adopted, inwardly quite
discontented, went .-- This afternoon! Once again shines the great
hall of the water in the Friends of the festive decorations flags and
pennants; again filled their galleries to the last place the dense
rows of colorful crowd, again, it offered up in the details are
always the same, unaltered image of a "swimming" ...

And in monotonous uniformity proceeded to point number turn far too long
ausgesponnenen program. The whole interest of smaller groups focused today
on the swimming competition - Felder's victory was sure - but on their
participation in the jumping. Had long been beyond the boundaries of
S. 1879-CB also around, as altogether hopeless, and it was measured,
and everywhere, in all corners, lurked the sweetest and purest of
human emotions, the gloating on his opportunity.

Only fields and saw heard nothing of everything.

Still and always seriously as he stood among his people, and his
eyes looked so calm and victory as ever.

Today, today was his big day, and no doubt could arise in him, no doubt
the other one's own, rock-solid faith disturbing. He just instinctively
felt the hostility around them, the way in which it alone or let him
ask this or that. What cared she? - After an hour he would have defeated
them, and even the contrary were vanquished at his feet ... When
he heard his name, therefore, and the springboard came to the first
of the multi-master fight prescribed jumps to be done, he lifted
his head higher than ever, looked at the high curvature of the
beautiful hall up, and in his eyes was (for no discernible) the old
lamps, and deep victory than ever before.

Then he jumped and he jumped not bad. A murmur only be escorted out
of the water - astonishment in those sports under the comrades who
jump for the first time saw half applause of those who jumped to
his own merits, since they knew a few weeks, compared.

Still gloating had no reason to respond and have not yet ventured out.
Neither particularly good, but also not bad were the next jumps. Everyone
knows, however, saw that they just looked better than they actually
were, and fields that any hope for a victory would have to be
buried, it would be jumping on this arrived.

But he not only completed the second part of the Mehrkampf, swimming
with a length of 150 meters, in his shiny old way, so that he is
about the maximum number of points gained at all achievable, but
he turned in the third part, the dipping , equal to the side of his
three opponents, he, like them, every twenty hervorholte plate, in
a time which is only slightly different from hers.

None of the competitors was before the expiration of 32 seconds from
the water rose, fields 45 In him remained.

The plate had him located far apart.

Mehrkampf The price was so despite the low scores obtained jumping - not
comparable with that of others - he won.

His club was a prize to himself a souvenir, and one of the targets
was achieved by him in his laurel wreath, a new leaf plaited.

The swimming champion in the first gave his championship Mehrkampf! - But
the silent and expectant smile, the faces of the many expert among those
present are not significant, showed that it is not yet all days evening
was. Especially the smile Grafenberger.

Because the event of the day, the main jumping, should still come.

And if Grafenberger then smiled, then he had his reason to do so. Today
more than ever.

Because of this main jumping, the third just after the competition ended
follow, had a whole, much-history in the last weeks results. As fields
brusque and impetuous his message for this sudden jump in the main club
said, after endless and as a private and internal debates, the fear of
the threat of his shell in his favor was a tendency, as well Grafenberger
said brusquely, and with far greater justification of course, if his club
because it has such a large unexpected Springer in its previous masters
swimmers "discovered" and that he wanted to prefer the same, so he may
yet do, and because obviously each club only a competitor to the fighting
could send, so be it but the best and easiest if he Grafenberger, off and
on to another club advocate. Then he could so easily prove how ridiculous
that such a preference.
Mrs. March said she did not care which it was; and she was
patient of the denouement, which began to postpone itself with delicate
delays. After repeated agitations at the door among portiers,
proprietors, and waiters, whose fluttered spirits imparted their thrill
to the spectators, while the coachman and footman remained
sculpturesquely impassive in their places, the carriage moved aside and
let an energetic American lady and her family drive up to the steps. The
hotel people paid her a tempered devotion, but she marred the effect by
rushing out and sitting on a balcony to wait for the delaying royalties.
There began to be more promises of their early appearance; a footman got
down and placed himself at the carriage door; the coachman stiffened
himself on his box; then he relaxed; the footman drooped, and even
wandered aside. There came a moment when at some signal the carriage
drove quite away from the portal and waited near the gate of the
stableyard; it drove back, and the spectators redoubled their attention.
Nothing happened, and some of them dropped off. At last an indescribable
significance expressed itself in the official group at the door; a man in
a high hat and dresscoat hurried out; a footman hurried to meet him; they
spoke inaudibly together. The footman mounted to his place; the coachman
gathered up his reins and drove rapidly out of the hotel-yard, down the
street, round the corner, out of sight. The man in the tall hat and
dress-coat went in; the official group at the threshold dissolved; the
statue in ivory and ebony resumed its place; evidently the Hoheit of
Coburg, or Montenegro, or Prussia, was not going to take the air.

"My dear, this is humiliating."

"Not at all! I wouldn't have missed it for anything. Think how near we
came to seeing them!"

"I shouldn't feel so shabby if we had seen them. But to hang round here
in this plebeian abeyance, and then to be defeated and defrauded at last!
I wonder how long this sort of thing is going on?"

"What thing?"

"This base subjection of the imagination to the Tom Foolery of the Ages."

"I don't know what you mean. I'm sure it's very natural to want to see a
Prince."

"Only too natural. It's so deeply founded in nature that after denying
royalty by word and deed for a hundred years, we Americans are hungrier
for it than anybody else. Perhaps we may come back to it!"

"Nonsense!"

They looked up at the Austrian flag on the tower of the hotel, languidly
curling and uncurling in the bland evening air, as it had over a thousand
years of stupid and selfish monarchy, while all the generous republics of
the Middle Ages had perished, and the commonwealths of later times had
passed like fever dreams. That dull, inglorious empire had antedated or
outlived Venice and Genoa, Florence and Siena, the England of Cromwell,
the Holland of the Stadtholders, and the France of many revolutions, and
all the fleeting democracies which sprang from these.

March began to ask himself how his curiosity differed from that of the
Europeans about him; then he became aware that these had detached
themselves, and left him exposed to the presence of a fellow countryman.
It was Otterson, with Mrs. Otterson; he turned upon March with hilarious
recognition. "Hello! Most of the Americans in Carlsbad seem to be hanging
round here for a sight of these kings. Well, we don't have a great many
of 'em, and it's natural we shouldn't want to miss any. But now, you
Eastern fellows, you go to Europe every summer, and yet you don't seem to
get enough of 'em. Think it's human nature, or did it get so ground into
us in the old times that we can't get it out, no difference what we say?"

"That's very much what I've been asking myself," said March. "Perhaps
it's any kind of show. We'd wait nearly as long for the President to come
out, wouldn't we?"

"I reckon we would. But we wouldn't for his nephew, or his second
cousin."

"Well, they wouldn't be in the way of the succession."

"I guess you're right." The Iowan seemed better satisfied with March's
philosophy than March felt himself, and he could not forbear adding:

"But I don't, deny that we should wait for the President because he's a
kind of king too. I don't know that we shall ever get over wanting to see
kings of some kind. Or at least my wife won't. May I present you to Mrs.
March?"

"Happy to meet you, Mrs. March," said the Iowan. "Introduce you to Mrs.
Otterson. I'm the fool in my family, and I know just how you feel about a
chance like this. I don't mean that you're--"

They all laughed at the hopeless case, and Mrs. March said, with one of
her unexpected likings: "I understand, Mr. Otterson. And I would rather
be our kind of fool than the kind that pretends not to care for the sight
of a king."

"Like you and me, Mrs. Otterson," said March.

"Indeed, indeed," said the lady, "I'd like to see a king too, if it
didn't take all night. Good-evening," she said, turning her husband about
with her, as if she suspected a purpose of patronage in Mrs. March, and
was not going to have it.

Otterson looked over his shoulder to explain, despairingly: "The trouble
with me is that when I do get a chance to talk English, there's such a
flow of language it carries me away, and I don't know just where I'm
landing."


XXXIII.

There were several kings and their kindred at Carlsbad that summer. One
day the Duchess of Orleans drove over from Marienbad, attended by the
Duke on his bicycle. After luncheon, they reappeared for a moment before
mounting to her carriage with their Secretaries: two young French
gentlemen whose dress and bearing better satisfied Mrs. March's exacting
passion for an aristocratic air in their order. The Duke was fat and
fair, as a Bourbon should be, and the Duchess fatter, though not so fair,
as became a Hapsburg, but they were both more plebeian-looking than their
retainers, who were slender as well as young, and as perfectly appointed
as English tailors could imagine them.

"It wouldn't do for the very highest sort of Highhotes," March declared,
"to look their own consequence personally; they have to leave that, like
everything else, to their inferiors."

By a happy heterophemy of Mrs. March's the German Hoheit had now become
Highhote, which was so much more descriptive that they had permanently
adopted it, and found comfort to their republican pride in the mockery
which it poured upon the feudal structure of society. They applied it
with a certain compunction, however, to the King of Servia, who came a
few days after the Duke and Duchess: he was such a young King, and of
such a little country. They watched for him from the windows of the
reading-room, while the crowd outside stood six deep on the three sides
of the square before the hotel, and the two plain public carriages which
brought the King and his suite drew tamely up at the portal, where the
proprietor and some civic dignitaries received him. His moderated
approach, so little like that of royalty on the stage, to which Americans
are used, allowed Mrs. March to make sure of the pale, slight,
insignificant, amiable-looking youth in spectacles as the sovereign she
was ambuscading. Then no appeal to her principles could keep her from
peeping through the reading-room door into the rotunda, where the King
graciously but speedily dismissed the civic gentlemen and the proprietor,
and vanished into the elevator. She was destined to see him so often
afterwards that she scarcely took the trouble to time her dining and
supping by that of the simple potentate, who had his meals in one of the
public rooms, with three gentlemen of his suite, in sack-coats like
himself, after the informal manner of the place.

Still another potentate, who happened that summer to be sojourning
abroad, in the interval of a successful rebellion, was at the opera one
night with some of his faithful followers. Burnamy had offered Mrs.
March, who supposed that he merely wanted her and her husband with him,
places in a box; but after she eagerly accepted, it seemed that he wished
her to advise him whether it would do to ask Miss Triscoe and her father
to join them.

"Why not?" she returned, with an arching of the eyebrows.

"Why," he said, "perhaps I had better make a clean breast of it."

"Perhaps you had," she said, and they both laughed, though he laughed
with a knot between his eyes.

"The fact is, you know, this isn't my treat, exactly. It's Mr.
Stoller's." At the surprise in her face he hurried on. "He's got back his
first letter in the paper, and he's so much pleased with the way he reads
in print, that he wants to celebrate."

"Yes," said Mrs. March, non-committally.

Burnamy laughed again. "But he's bashful, and he isn't sure that you
would all take it in the right way. He wants you as friends of mine; and
he hasn't quite the courage to ask you himself."

This seemed to Mrs. March so far from bad that she said: "That's very
nice of him. Then he's satisfied with--with your help? I'm glad of that."

"Thank you. He's met the Triscoes, and he thought it would be pleasant to
you if they went, too."

"Oh, certainly."

"He thought," Burnamy went on, with the air of feeling his way, "that we
might all go to the opera, and then--then go for a little supper
afterwards at Schwarzkopf's."

He named the only place in Carlsbad where you can sup so late as ten
o'clock; as the opera begins at six, and is over at half past eight, none
but the wildest roisterers frequent the place.

"Oh!" said Mrs. March. "I don't know how a late supper would agree with
my husband's cure. I should have to ask him."

"We could make it very hygienic," Burnamy explained.

In repeating his invitation she blamed Burnamy's uncandor so much that
March took his part, as perhaps she intended, and said, "Oh, nonsense,"
and that he should like to go in for the whole thing; and General Triscoe
accepted as promptly for himself and his daughter. That made six people,
Burnamy counted up, and he feigned a decent regret that there was not
room for Mrs. Adding and her son; he would have liked to ask them.

Mrs. March did not enjoy it so much as coming with her husband alone when
they took two florin seats in the orchestra for the comedy. The comedy
always began half an hour earlier than the opera, and they had a
five-o'clock supper at the Theatre-Cafe before they went, and they got to
sleep by nine o'clock; now they would be up till half past ten at least,
and that orgy at Schwarzkopf's might not be at all good for him. But
still she liked being there; and Miss Triscoe made her take the best
seat; Burnamy and Stoller made the older men take the other seats beside
the ladies, while they sat behind, or stood up, when they, wished to see,
as people do in the back of a box. Stoller was not much at ease in
evening dress, but he bore himself with a dignity which was not perhaps
so gloomy as it looked; Mrs. March thought him handsome in his way, and
required Miss Triscoe to admire him. As for Burnamy's beauty it was not
necessary to insist upon that; he had the distinction of slender youth;
and she liked to think that no Highhote there was of a more patrician
presence than this yet unprinted contributor to 'Every Other Week'. He
and Stoller seemed on perfect terms; or else in his joy he was able to
hide the uneasiness which she had fancied in him from the first time she
saw them together, and which had never been quite absent from his manner
in Stoller's presence. Her husband always denied that it existed, or if
it did that it was anything but Burnamy's effort to get on common ground
with an inferior whom fortune had put over him.

The young fellow talked with Stoller, and tried to bring him into the
range of the general conversation. He leaned over the ladies, from time
to time, and pointed out the notables whom he saw in the house; she was
glad, for his sake, that he did not lean less over her than over Miss
Triscoe. He explained certain military figures in the boxes opposite, and
certain ladies of rank who did not look their rank; Miss Triscoe, to Mrs.
March's thinking, looked their united ranks, and more; her dress was very
simple, but of a touch which saved it from being insipidly girlish; her
beauty was dazzling.

"Do you see that old fellow in the corner chair just behind the
orchestra?" asked Burnamy. "He's ninety-six years old, and he comes to
the theatre every night, and falls asleep as soon as the curtain rises,
and sleeps through till the end of the act."

"How dear!" said the girl, leaning forward to fix the nonagenarian with
her glasses, while many other glasses converged upon her. "Oh, wouldn't
you like to know him, Mr. March?"

"I should consider it a liberal education. They have brought these things
to a perfect system in Europe. There is nothing to make life pass
smoothly like inflexible constancy to an entirely simple custom. My
dear," he added to his wife, "I wish we'd seen this sage before. He'd
have helped us through a good many hours of unintelligible comedy. I'm
always coming as Burnamy's guest, after this."

The young fellow swelled with pleasure in his triumph, and casting an eye
about the theatre to cap it, he caught sight of that other potentate. He
whispered joyfully, "Ah! We've got two kings here to-night," and he
indicated in a box of their tier just across from that where the King of
Servia sat, the well-known face of the King of New York.

"He isn't bad-looking," said March, handing his glass to General Triscoe.
"I've not seen many kings in exile; a matter of a few Carlist princes and
ex-sovereign dukes, and the good Henry V. of France, once, when I was
staying a month in Venice; but I don't think they any of them looked the
part better. I suppose he has his dream of recurring power like the
rest."

"Dream!" said General Triscoe with the glass at his eyes. "He's dead sure
of it."

"Oh, you don't really mean that!"

"I don't know why I should have changed my mind."

"Then it's as if we were in the presence of Charles II. just before he
was called back to England, or Napoleon in the last moments of Elba. It's
better than that. The thing is almost unique; it's a new situation in
history. Here's a sovereign who has no recognized function, no legal
status, no objective existence. He has no sort of public being, except in
the affection of his subjects. It took an upheaval little short of an
earthquake to unseat him. His rule, as we understand it, was bad for all
classes; the poor suffered more than the rich; the people have now had
three years of self-government; and yet this wonderful man has such a
hold upon the masses that he is going home to win the cause of oppression
at the head of the oppressed. When he's in power again, he will be as
subjective as ever, with the power of civic life and death, and an
idolatrous following perfectly ruthless in the execution of his will."

"We've only begun," said the general. "This kind of king is municipal,
now; but he's going to be national. And then, good-by, Republic!"

"The only thing like it," March resumed, too incredulous of the evil
future to deny himself the aesthetic pleasure of the parallel, "is the
rise of the Medici in Florence, but even the Medici were not mere
manipulators of pulls; they had some sort of public office, with some
sort of legislated tenure of it. The King of New York is sovereign by
force of will alone, and he will reign in the voluntary submission of the
majority. Is our national dictator to be of the same nature and quality?"

"It would be the scientific evolution, wouldn't it?"

The ladies listened with the perfunctory attention which women pay to any
sort of inquiry which is not personal. Stoller had scarcely spoken yet;
he now startled them all by demanding, with a sort of vindictive force,
"Why shouldn't he have the power, if they're willing to let him?"

"Yes," said General Triscoe, with a tilt of his head towards March.
"That's what we must ask ourselves more and more."

March leaned back in his chair, and looked up over his shoulder at
Stoller. "Well, I don't know. Do you think it's quite right for a man to
use an unjust power, even if others are willing that he should?"

Stoller stopped with an air of bewilderment as if surprised on the point
of saying that he thought just this. He asked instead, "What's wrong
about it?"

"Well, that's one of those things that have to be felt, I suppose. But if
a man came to you, and offered to be your slave for a certain
consideration--say a comfortable house, and a steady job, that wasn't too
hard--should you feel it morally right to accept the offer? I don't say
think it right, for there might be a kind of logic for it."

Stoller seemed about to answer; he hesitated; and before he had made any
response, the curtain rose.


XXXIV.

There are few prettier things than Carlsbad by night from one of the many
bridges which span the Tepl in its course through the town. If it is a
starry night, the torrent glides swiftly away with an inverted firmament
in its bosom, to which the lamps along its shores and in the houses on
either side contribute a planetary splendor of their own. By nine o'clock
everything is hushed; not a wheel is heard at that dead hour; the few
feet shuffling stealthily through the Alte Wiese whisper a caution of
silence to those issuing with a less guarded tread from the opera; the
little bowers that overhang the stream are as dark and mute as the
restaurants across the way which serve meals in them by day; the whole
place is as forsaken as other cities at midnight. People get quickly home
to bed, or if they have a mind to snatch a belated joy, they slip into
the Theater-Cafe, where the sleepy Frauleins serve them, in an exemplary
drowse, with plates of cold ham and bottles of the gently gaseous waters
of Giesshubl. Few are of the bold badness which delights in a supper at
Schwarzkopf's, and even these are glad of the drawn curtains which hide
their orgy from the chance passer.

The invalids of Burnamy's party kept together, strengthening themselves
in a mutual purpose not to be tempted to eat anything which was not
strictly 'kurgemass'. Mrs. March played upon the interest which each of
them felt in his own case so artfully that she kept them talking of their
cure, and left Burnamy and Miss Triscoe to a moment on the bridge, by
which they profited, while the others strolled on, to lean against the
parapet and watch the lights in the skies and the water, and be alone
together. The stream shone above and below, and found its way out of and
into the darkness under the successive bridges; the town climbed into the
night with lamp-lit windows here and there, till the woods of the
hill-sides darkened down to meet it, and fold it in an embrace from which
some white edifice showed palely in the farthest gloom.

He tried to make her think they could see that great iron crucifix which
watches over it day and night from its piny cliff. He had a fancy for a
poem, very impressionistic, which should convey the notion of the
crucifix's vigil. He submitted it to her; and they remained talking till
the others had got out of sight and hearing; and she was letting him keep
the hand on her arm which he had put there to hold her from falling over
the parapet, when they were both startled by approaching steps, and a
voice calling, "Look here! Who's running this supper party, anyway?"

His wife had detached March from her group for the mission, as soon as
she felt that the young people were abusing her kindness. They answered
him with hysterical laughter, and Burnamy said, "Why, it's Mr. Stoller's
treat, you know."

Otherwise, they could but bad consequences for us! Geschwommen last course
you like a pig! - Fields said not a word. He sat there like a student
who, by his teacher punished. He was calm when he is under the dressing
- it was now only the great golden medal of his championship in
Germany of the breast - among his friends mingled sentiment and
emotion, which in his incredible sprint among them still nachzitterte.
None had even a penny more about where his victory, assured him, as it
is in the final length so far behind Biedermann lie saw. Whether he
intentionally left behind in order to show what he could - Whether a cramp
attack had him - Whether he is in the lengths verzählt have - so the
question assailed him from all sides, until the new fields of was angry,
and they are made. Koepke He took on the page. He may also try to see
if the old Heinecke with his daughter was not there, yes? - And he let
his decision to bring the garden. Koepke continued ran like a faithful
dog, but the answer, after which he took half an hour, was not
capable of Felder's mood income.

He had looked through all the rows, Koepke reported, but he had wanted
nothing of the place. Now it was clear that they had not. Of course the
old man was to blame because they had not left. How should he start now,
so soon again? - Discontented he sat in front of his beers in a corner
of the garden and let his friends talk as much as they wanted
without having to listen to them.

Querulous and silent than usual, he remained the rest of the
afternoon. He waited only the official announcement of the results, then
he joined a club friend who wanted to go home early, because
tomorrow morning he set to work had to be done.

The only thing about him somewhat comforted his own stupidity, had
a few words the Brüning call him when he was in the garden passed
to him was: "Human child, you can be so much more than we all know
and you yourself ahnst.

Whoever brings the ready, what you just did, you can have a joke permit.
"And he had zugenickt him and was with his mistress continued. - Yes,
Brüning was right: he was far more than anyone and he himself knew
it.

At home, Fields threw himself onto the bed and overslept the alarm
this disaster day as he called it, in ten sleep.

The whole next week nagte it to him that she had not. Basically, it was
less the desire, they again, as a degree of unrest, this unknown
feeling him as an end to make him for an evening, instead of swimming
in the vicinity of her apartment and down to let go, hoping it out
or return home to see and speak.

After almost one hour herumgelaufen was vain, he saw not her, but one
of their girlfriends, he is also from the previous Sunday knew her
from the home are, fortunately, alone.

He had them up to the next street corner, go ahead and talked to them.
The small thickness was only a cry from surprised when she saw fields,
but then it was like himself, to his questions zuvorkam. Oh, Lizzie, she
had indeed privy to everything - how good it was that they saw him,
because they 've news for him - he had probably seen by chance?
- Did he waited Elise here? - No. - So, if he did not even know that they
continue to be valid?

- No -- -Oh, yes it was a whole story. The old Heinecke had been angry
at the Sunday before the eight days that it has put the whole afternoon
would eat together and then, that they in the dark in the woods
were left behind.

Already on the way back, he had begun - even if they thought it would
be very bad, so geschimpft have the old man.

At one of the next few days because she also went to Elise to learn from
what was actually made. But the friend had only cried - cried so o!
- And always said she would so like to come on Sunday to him once
more to see.

But when they finally taken courage and her father said that, since the
story was started anew, and to their establishments, it was still in
the same week after Poznan sent to an aunt in order to stay one
year and the household to learn.

You've still Elise seen before their departure, and they have
expressly applied, but Mr.

Fields still quite nice to greet him and to say that he is not evil
but it should be on Sunday when they could not comment because it
was not possible that it would be something, and so it was the best
because even if they are added together and talking ...

So forget the thickness to go hostile, their science and get rid of such a
good listener to have.

Because fields went forth next to her, by the people flows, and
said not a word.

Tonight she had been up - so it went on - to see whether or not a
letter from Elise was the matter.

Yes, they've already written: it likes it quite well in the city
in which she was now, and in fourteen days, had a ball at the casino,
where officers hinkämen, and they've asked the aunt, to be allowed
to go, and the aunt had allowed it ...

The old man was also very calming, and tonight he had even laughed when
he said that his wise Elise already was not so foolish to think that "fact"
something serious could be because if he - Fields - also was an excellent
swimmer, it was the only brotlose arts, and he could but his only child
does not promise a young man who just made the doctrine was safe and
no future ahead of it ... did she not follow. Because Fields was suddenly
and asked: - Did they not give you a letter for me, where? No, no letter.
But she had told him that Elise greet him quite nicely and leave it so
sorry ... Then again they stood alone on the street under the vorbeieilenden
people. My companion had quite unexpectedly, his hat pulled very
briefly wished good evening and was gone. Not even until after he brought
it home! Fields not even thought of it. What was it at the silly goose!
- He thought of the girl, who only played with him and then him so lightly
- with a volatile Grüß - abandoned. But it was much more the feeling of
an insult than that suffered the pain under which he suffered
in this hour. That he, the champion swimmer from Germany, it could
handle, that was what it wurmte and a bitter resentment in his view.

And more than anything it had the word of the reichgewordenen distributor
of wood-free art of bread made. He bit the lips of another in anger
when he thought the road while he hinunterlief and running roughshod through
the rows of pedestrians ran. As if he ever thought would have to marry
this girl! - He had absolutely nothing to think this old man was
money very quiet. The girl he had fallen, the most blatant admiration,
which he read in their eyes, and in their view it had become so warm.
But he was quite right. Why did he leave his people and had gone to the
table. What was it the woman in the room? He had until now not
about them and she does not, he would probably still remember this silly
thing about whom he's swimming tonight and nearly missed a victory would
have lost ... He looked after the clock. But it was already too late.
And with a movement of anger he shook this whole stupid story to
him much too much had a headache, on its own and hit the road to
his local club, where he is still one or other of his comrades while
hoping to find beers .. .

From that evening he thought only of the girl sometimes, but always wallte
anew the feeling wounded pride in him and remained in his back -
like a remnant of rancor against all women.

With increased satisfaction he enjoyed many triumphs this autumn, of which
almost every Sunday to a new revenue: Or that the championship and with
it the large silver medal, the next for the second time the major national
award in Hamburg, and already the next prize in the vielumstrittenen
breaststroke, the unified West German swimming club did - a silver cup
for his club, so large and valuable, as this had a few. Before the
winter began, he is then in the factory in which he was a year after
his apprenticeship wanted to stay, his first vacation and eight made
the big contest of the "I. Austrian Amateur Swimming Club of Vienna"
with on which he died on the first day Anton Riegler, Austria's master
of the short distance, for the first time was allowed to beat, and on
the second day of the big derby on price against the long Participants of
three countries: Italy, Austria and Germany, under tremendous expectations
of all stakeholders, ersiegte. So grabbed the young master of Germany
with those victories soon after the game and laurels from abroad, after
his own, already wide Fatherland called his own . The trip to Vienna, his
first trip abroad was also actually the first, at the pleasure he really
felt. He made it with Brüning and two other members of his clubs, old
friends and brothers, funny, was a guest in the beautiful villa of a
wealthy Austrian sports fans who do not take the honor to leave the German
championship swimmer at his house, was the whole day and half the
night by all the pleasures of the beautiful "imperial city on the Danube"
and drag it probably be among the leichtlebigen people with the carefree
nature and the cozy language. Yet nowhere, he had felt so well as here,
and when at last the eight days of their trips, their happy meals, which
are peculiar to girls never lacked their Fiaker rides, the
Ronacherabenden and durchjubelten nights on end, because he was how
stunned.

Besides the big price for his club, the shields of honor, and honor your
own unforgettable memories he brought home, and among them was not
the last in love, he is also in Vienna should first know the remorse
and pain of love fleeting hours, laughing and offered without reflect
enjoyed as a refreshing drink and sweet like a fruit vollsaftige.

Berlin came before him sober, and he needed some time to get back to his
monotonous days of work to be used by these days, in which he was honored
as a king and had lived like a millionaire ... The winter went silent.
At Berlin's main swimming he had to suspend. He was completely overtrained
.-- What is damaged? if he was also annoyed. In his chest stimulated new
demands of ambition and secret dreams told him of victories that have _not_
which had become his. 11 Again there was a winter and summer came
again.

And as everything in these last years in the life of Franz Felder's
just a restless hurry from success to success, so came the next
summer those triumphs, it led to a height, beyond which no longer
went way: besides a number of other first victory dropped him to
the European Championships and more than - -he claimed this
championship on that glorious trip to England, where he was in a
in the history of swimming off the only race against the English
and Australian masters advocated, the largest and most famous swimmer
in the world.

The European Championships on the long distance of fifteen hundred
feet erschwamm he Grünau on festivals, the great German federation,
which now almost all the swimming clubs of the German Empire were,
in conjunction with the major exception German clubs and associations
held to the float of almost all countries of the continent appeared,
and which can be a contest designed, as this size and this importance
in Germany still had not taken place.

It was not only for Berlin, but also for the whole world swimmers
of Germany the big event of the summer, behind which all other
events far resigning.

Never before had a meeting with such a view contrary to expectation,
yet the tension never had such a fever ... height reached unanimous
among all the clubs in Berlin, even among those who otherwise could
never get tired, to fight: it was, Berlin after außenhin worthy to
represent the old glory, for years the real home of Schwimmerei to
be no disgrace to make.

Therefore, neither trouble nor expense, and many weeks before the
delegates began to view the program of long days to think through
and up into its final details should be fixed.

Has never been but also the participation in the reports so frequent and
so exciting have been.

With the exception of England were those of almost all countries of the
continent, from Italy to Sweden, from Holland to Austria-in, and hardly
any in recent years the name was called unvertreten: besides the
famous floats the first Springer, Mehrkampf crowned champion of
Europe.

Of course, Swimming in all the major hopes for the masters of
Germany.

In his hands was due mainly to the glory of Berlin, the honor of
Germany.

If he was subject, so subject to Berlin, where he has not won, it was
the championship of Germany in the hands of foreign countries. And
Fields knew it well - there were none, so he convinced himself of the
importance of this victory would have been . He felt that this other
things at stake than his own fame and that of his clubs to which
he fought until now.

The city where he was born, and his homeland, the vast German empire,
saw him on that day.

He could not give them shame - it _durfte_ not his - he trained with
unparalleled perseverance and diligence.

Now also the year that after his apprenticeship, he still remained
in the factory, was finished, he wanted to enter into a new place
to wait for the big event was over.

On his thrift, he had managed to go a bit.

Also stood him wealthy enough Exchanges club open to friends and admirers,
but Fields was far too proud to even the slightest accept. He would
prefer his Sportreisen paid, but that he could not, of course. It was
his club rich enough to not be victims of this kind by its members expect
to need. Since Mr. Fields is totally of his time had prevented him
nothing in his training. The experience of last winter had made him
wise, and he watched probably, too much of a good thing to do. He kept
himself in the strictest self-treat and no pleasure that on the
tenth night lasted, where he was sure was already in bed.

Some found its seriousness is often ridiculed, he let them laugh. A kind
of sinister determination took hold of his in this last time. He was
taciturn and sealed, as otherwise he already was. At the same time
also seemed nice and sunny and calm, after the victories of recent years
had come over him and with each new victory, the more repellent and
Rugged Insichgekehrte had eased his being, he too soft. He now resembled
more of the poor and unknown boys from back then, with the forehead and
the unjugendlichen defiant lips, nothing was, and yet so much
wanted to be, than by all the world acclaimed winner of his dreams
to become reality, and saw sunbathing in their performance.

And it was he, in fact, as he had not yet reached, as this victory was
only about Europe alone anything worth striving for, until the actual
coronation of a building to which all other achievements just as stages
resulted.

When he was subject, he, on the immense responsibility of representing a
whole, people were great, everything else was so vain, so - in his
already overheated thought he talked a - it was not only Berlin,
but the whole German Reich to the ridicule of the foreign prices
davonziehenden released.

Because that is also another German swimmer could succeed, the prize
for "the strangers" davonzutragen, thought he did not once - so
much, he has himself as the invincible master of his Fatherland.

But he had this fear of foreigners, particularly those opponents
that he did not know from whom he is the lowest measured, whose
forces he knew nothing definite.

And a feeling of restlessness and fear, here, on its own soil, he
is somehow meter by meter fought in these years had to be beaten,
was not away from him and every uninhibited joy ...

It was no more pleasure with him and his practice run to see, and his solemn
seriousness with which he came and went, put the others. It was like in
the days before a battle he won ....

In recent days, most all of his back trouble. A great determination
shone from his eyes, as he must win at any price. He said everything on
his own, he did not want to hear and see more of what everyone around him
busy. What was it all these strange names and people - whether they knew
it or not, he swam about not better. He knew only one thing: that he had
to win! And as if the strength of his muscles should obey his will,
it happened, what he wanted.

He won.

He proposed the famous Dutchman, the dreaded Austrians, he smote the giant
Norwegians, a megalithic to shape and strength, he beat the best
in his own homeland for the second and third times, and he won on
his own time from previous years with more than three minutes. An
indescribable tumult arose when he anschlug. The spectators raced. His
friends almost squeezing him. Completely strangers hugged him. They carried
him more than he went through the ranks of people who had left their
seats. Germany had won. And in Germany Berlin - Berlin And this cool,
so like always inclined to diminish the criticism and so abhold each
Gefühlsüberschwänglichkeit, were hardly to recognize in the jubilation and
the joy over the victory of their city.

Incredibly, these fields - heard you everywhere, what will that he can.
And the enthusiasm did not want to put ... were still on the quiet fields,
and even - nail. The long said nothing more, and only a handshake revealed
that he mitfühlte at this moment. He thought to himself: Now, now,
it will show - that, as he endures this victory .-- Brüning ran around
and screamed as obsessed after champagne, and Koepke was totally
unsoundness. He spoke only in hyperbolas. In Felder's silence, which
is also much more a physical than an interior, had a certain way, mental
as physical bracing their main reason. Now, when everything was over,
he remarked, as he is in the last few weeks had consumed internally - and
such a desire.

In the same garden, where in previous years championship his statement
was made in Germany, he was now the highest of all Honors received,
and the respectful silence of many hundreds he took the champion
prize ...! warm summer night, the whole round again took the celebration
around him. He lived in these very hours. He did not return. He thought
not even in the future. The voices fell silent in him. For perhaps the
first time in his life, she remained silent throughout. He had achieved,
not what he wanted: no, much more than that you had to be silent
today, these voices, because they were of the unanimous overpowers
cheering for him. The silent star shone down, the soft breath of the
night played by the hot-heads, and water came from the fresh
coolness, all of these people do not tire of him, to talk, to drink,
to inebriate alive to joy and of personal power.

And Fields drank - drank - drank - everything you gave him: champagne,
beer and wine, but it tasted sweet at the heady potion of success.

Everything else, he had forgotten. Even when he was in the midst his
wildest admirers as intoxicated finally went to the station, was
also not a memory in his tired and confused thoughts to him a white
dress, a young bodyguard or a warm mouth would have been awakened.

Was it the beginning, the promise of that reconciliation with death which
nature brings to life at last, or was it merely the effect, or defect, of
ossified sensibilities, of toughened nerves?

"That is all?" he asked of the spectral sacristan.

"That is all," the man said, and March felt in his pocket for a coin
commensurate to the service he had done them; it ought to be something
handsome.

"No, no," said Stoller, detecting his gesture. "Your money a'n't good."

He put twenty or thirty kreutzers into the hand of the man, who regarded
them with a disappointment none the less cruel because it was so patient.
In France, he would have been insolent; in Italy, he would have frankly
said it was too little; here, he merely looked at the money and whispered
a sad "Danke."

Burnamy and Miss Triscoe rose from the grassy bank outside where they
were sitting, and waited for the elders to get into their two-spanner.

"Oh, have I lost my glove in there?" said Mrs. March, looking at her
hands and such parts of her dress as a glove might cling to.

"Let me go and find it for you," Burnamy entreated.

"Well," she consented, and she added, "If the sacristan has found it,
give him something for me something really handsome, poor fellow."

As Burnamy passed her, she let him see that she had both her gloves, and
her heart yearned upon him for his instant smile of intelligence: some
men would have blundered out that she had the lost glove in her hand. He
came back directly, saying, "No, he didn't find it."

She laughed, and held both gloves up. "No wonder! I had it all the time.
Thank you ever so much."

"How are we going to ride back?" asked Stoller.

Burnamy almost turned pale; Miss Triscoe smiled impenetrably. No one else
spoke, and Mrs. March said, with placid authority, "Oh, I think the way
we came, is best."

"Did that absurd creature," she apostrophized her husband as soon as she
got him alone after their arrival at Pupp's, "think I was going to let
him drive back with Agatha?"

"I wonder," said March, "if that's what Burnamy calls her now?"

"I shall despise him if it isn't."


XXXVII.

Burnamy took up his mail to Stoller after the supper which they had eaten
in a silence natural with two men who have been off on a picnic together.
He did not rise from his writing-desk when Burnamy came in, and the young
man did not sit down after putting his letters before him. He said, with
an effort of forcing himself to speak at once, "I have looked through the
papers, and there is something that I think you ought to see."

"What do you mean?" said Stoller.

Burnamy laid down three or four papers opened to pages where certain
articles were strongly circumscribed in ink. The papers varied, but their
editorials did not, in purport at least. Some were grave and some were
gay; one indignantly denounced; another affected an ironical
bewilderment; the third simply had fun with the Hon. Jacob Stoller. Fields
laughed when he heard it .-- Against Him - You wanted to replace him?
- It should be fooled. He wanted to show them what they had lost to him.
And it gave him a cruel pleasure, the former club comrades, with whom
he discussed many times in the game had practiced, still lying
next to leave, than the other three competitors have long since
left them behind him to allow up to body length your goal to come,
already the cry to hear previously applied to him, and then the
thunderous applause from the black and yellow and all the spectators
at this one body length to beat it with his famous and feared attack
was to go .. .

That evening, when he was next to this 300-meter victory even the
newly donated Kaiser Award "for the" Pike "and bought his new comrades
could not do enough to address their joy and gratitude to show, while
the S. -- CB 1879 in corpore the local distribution of the prize left, he
enjoyed the feeling of totally saturated satisfaction of revenge. But in
the near future, in the long days and weeks between the major parties,
otherwise it is always filled with calm and happy working with dear
friends, he felt more than ever, what he lost this summer.

None of the two shots - the first, which he received in his life,
- he managed to twisting: neither the defeat in jumping, nor the
loss of his clubs.

One had him defiantly and jealous, although it hurt him deeply, but on
the other he suffered.

It was a wound that would not close. Because of his new comrades, he
felt strange.

As already as a boy, he was still unable to adjust quickly to new
people and putting in traffic is easy to give.

The course was on the other side and also felt some trials confidential
approximation even heard of.

Fields was no longer satisfied and happy.
Burnamy, what's the
matter?"

He smiled miserably. "Oh, I haven't slept very well. May I have my coffee
with you? I want to tell you something; I want you to make me. But I
can't speak till the coffee comes. Fraulein!" he besought a waitress
going off with a tray near them. "Tell Lili, please, to bring me some
coffee--only coffee."

He tried to make some talk about the weather, which was rainy, and the
Marches helped him, but the poor endeavor lagged wretchedly in the
interval between the ordering and the coming of the coffee. "Ah, thank
you, Lili," he said, with a humility which confirmed Mrs. March in her
instant belief that he had been offering himself to Miss Triscoe and been
rejected. After gulping his coffee, he turned to her: "I want to say
good-by. I'm going away."

"From Carlsbad?" asked Mrs. March with a keen distress.

The water came into his eyes. "Don't, don't be good to me, Mrs. March! I
can't stand it. But you won't, when you know."

He began to speak of Stoller, first to her, but addressing himself more
and more to the intelligence of March, who let him go on without
question, and laid a restraining hand upon his wife when he saw her about
to prompt him. At the end, "That's all," he said, huskily, and then he
seemed to be waiting for March's comment. He made none, and the young
fellow was forced to ask, "Well, what do you think, Mr. March?"

"What do you think yourself?"

"I think, I behaved badly," said Burnamy, and a movement of protest from
Mrs. March nerved him to add: "I could make out that it was not my
business to tell him what he was doing; but I guess it was; I guess I
ought to have stopped him, or given him a chance to stop himself. I
suppose I might have done it, if he had treated me decently when I turned
up a day late, here; or hadn't acted toward me as if I were a hand in his
buggy-works that had come in an hour after the whistle sounded."

He set his teeth, and an indignant sympathy shone in Mrs. March's eyes;
but her husband only looked the more serious.

He asked gently, "Do you offer that fact as an explanation, or as a
justification."

Burnamy laughed forlornly. "It certainly wouldn't justify me. You might
say that it made the case all the worse for me." March forbore to say,
and Burnamy went on. "But I didn't suppose they would be onto him so
quick, or perhaps at all. I thought--if I thought anything--that it would
amuse some of the fellows in the office, who know about those things." He
paused, and in March's continued silence he went on. "The chance was one
in a hundred that anybody else would know where he had brought up."

"But you let him take that chance," March suggested.

"Yes, I let him take it. Oh, you know how mixed all these things are!"

"Yes."

"Of course I didn't think it out at the time. But I don't deny that I had
a satisfaction in the notion of the hornets' nest he was poking his thick
head into. It makes me sick, now, to think I had. I oughtn't to have let
him; he was perfectly innocent in it. After the letter went, I wanted to
tell him, but I couldn't; and then I took the chances too. I don't
believe he could have ever got forward in politics; he's too honest--or
he isn't dishonest in the right way. But that doesn't let me out. I don't
defend myself! I did wrong; I behaved badly. But I've suffered for it.

"I've had a foreboding all the time that it would come to the worst, and
felt like a murderer with his victim when I've been alone with Stoller.
When I could get away from him I could shake it off, and even believe
that it hadn't happened. You can't think what a nightmare it's been!
Well, I've ruined Stoller politically, but I've ruined myself, too. I've
spoiled my own life; I've done what I can never explain to--to the people
I want to have believe in me; I've got to steal away like the thief I am.
Good-by!" He jumped to his feet, and put out his hand to March, and then
to Mrs. March.

"Why, you're not going away now!" she cried, in a daze.

"Yes, I am. I shall leave Carlsbad on the eleven-o'clock train. I don't
think I shall see you again." He clung to her hand. "If you see General
Triscoe--I wish you'd tell them I couldn't--that I had to--that I was
called away suddenly--Good-by!" He pressed her hand and dropped it, and
mixed with the crowd. Then he came suddenly back, with a final appeal to
March: "Should you--do you think I ought to see Stoller, and--and tell
him I don't think I used him fairly?"

"You ought to know--" March began.

But before he could say more, Burnamy said, "You're right," and was off
again.

"Oh, how hard you were with him, my dear!" Mrs. March lamented.

"I wish," he said, "if our boy ever went wrong that some one would be as
true to him as I was to that poor fellow. He condemned himself; and he
was right; he has behaved very badly."

"You always overdo things so, when you act righteously!"

"Now, Isabel!"

"Oh, yes, I know what you will say. But I should have tempered justice
with mercy."

Her nerves tingled with pity for Burnamy, but in her heart she was glad
that her husband had had strength to side with him against himself, and
she was proud of the forbearance with which he had done it. In their
earlier married life she would have confidently taken the initiative on
all moral questions. She still believed that she was better fitted for
their decision by her Puritan tradition and her New England birth, but
once in a great crisis when it seemed a question of their living, she had
weakened before it, and he, with no such advantages, had somehow met the
issue with courage and conscience. She could not believe he did so by
inspiration, but she had since let him take the brunt of all such issues
and the responsibility. He made no reply, and she said: "I suppose you'll
admit now there was always something peculiar in the poor boy's manner to
Stoller."

He would confess no more than that there ought to have been. "I don't see
how he could stagger through with that load on his conscience. I'm not
sure I like his being able to do so."

She was silent in the misgiving which she shared with him, but she said:
"I wonder how far it has gone with him and Miss Triscoe?"

"Well, from his wanting you to give his message to the general in the
plural--"

"Don't laugh! It's wicked to laugh! It's heartless!" she cried,
hysterically. "What will he do, poor fellow?"

"I've an idea that he will light on his feet, somehow. But, at any rate,
he's doing the right thing in going to own up to Stoller."

"Oh, Stoller! I care nothing for Stoller! Don't speak to me of Stoller!"

Burnamy fond the Bird of Prey, as he no longer had the heart to call him,
walking up and down in his room like an eagle caught in a trap. He
erected his crest fiercely enough, though, when the young fellow came in
at his loudly shouted, "Herein!"

"What do you want?" he demanded, brutally.

This simplified Burnamy's task, while it made it more loathsome. He
answered not much less brutally, "I want to tell you that I think I used
you badly, that I let you betray yourself, that I feel myself to blame."
He could have added, "Curse you!" without change of tone.

Stoller sneered in a derision that showed his lower teeth like a dog's
when he snarls. "You want to get back!"

"No," said Burnamy, mildly, and with increasing sadness as he spoke. "I
don't want to get back. Nothing would induce me. I'm going away on the
first train."

"Well, you're not!" shouted Stoller. "You've lied me into this--"

"Look out!" Burnamy turned white.

"Didn't you lie me into it, if you let me fool myself, as you say?"
Stoller pursued, and Burnamy felt himself weaken through his wrath.
"Well, then, you got to lie me out of it. I been going over the damn
thing, all night--and you can do it for me. I know you can do it," he
gave way in a plea that was almost a whimper. "Look here! You see if you
can't. I'll make it all right with you. I'll pay you whatever you think
is right--whatever you say."

"Oh!" said Burnamy, in otherwise unutterable disgust.

"You kin," Stoller went on, breaking down more and more into his adopted
Hoosier, in the stress of his anxiety. "I know you kin, Mr. Burnamy." He
pushed the paper containing his letter into Burnamy's hands, and pointed
out a succession of marked passages. "There! And here! And this place!
Don't you see how you could make out that it meant something else, or was
just ironical?" He went on to prove how the text might be given the
complexion he wished, and Burnamy saw that he had really thought it not
impossibly out. "I can't put it in writing as well as you; but I've done
all the work, and all you've got to do is to give it some of them turns
of yours. I'll cable the fellows in our office to say I've been
misrepresented, and that my correction is coming. We'll get it into shape
here together, and then I'll cable that. I don't care for the money. And
I'll get our counting-room to see this scoundrel"--he picked up the paper
that had had fun with him--"and fix him all right, so that he'll ask for
a suspension of public opinion, and--You see, don't you?"

The thing did appeal to Burnamy. If it could be done, it would enable him
to make Stoller the reparation he longed to make him more than anything
else in the world. But he heard himself saying, very gently, almost
tenderly, "It might be done, Mr. Stoller. But I couldn't do it. It
wouldn't be honest--for me."

"Yah!" yelled Stoller, and he crushed the paper into a wad and flung it
into Burnamy's face. "Honest, you damn humbug! You let me in for this,
when you knew I didn't mean it, and now you won't help me out because it
a'n't honest! Get out of my room, and get out quick before I--"

He hurled himself toward Burnamy, who straightened himself, with "If you
dare!" He knew that he was right in refusing; but he knew that Stoller
was right, too, and that he had not meant the logic of what he had said
in his letter, and of what Burnamy had let him imply. He braved Stoller's
onset, and he left his presence untouched, but feeling as little a moral
hero as he well could.


XXXVIII.

General Triscoe woke in the bad humor of an elderly man after a day's
pleasure, and in the self-reproach of a pessimist who has lost his point
of view for a time, and has to work back to it. He began at the belated
breakfast with his daughter when she said, after kissing him gayly, in
the small two-seated bower where they breakfasted at their hotel when
they did not go to the Posthof, "Didn't you have a nice time, yesterday,
papa?"

She sank into the chair opposite, and beamed at him across the little
iron table, as she lifted the pot to pour out his coffee.

"What do you call a nice time?" he temporized, not quite able to resist
her gayety.

"Well, the kind of time I had."

"Did you get rheumatism from sitting on the grass? Finally, when his
heart a bit saturated, it was small when Marthe [78], after he asked
her, and his eyes looked around on the ground - only the mother
led him a prosperous woman, with bright blue eyes, a child on the
arms, like a Madonna, whose country he Welsch [79] seen in pictures
- he knew in the small K inde Marthe, the mother of the child but
he dared not to kiss, and she stood dumb before him, and saw him
Liebreich just to - finally greeted and kissed it herzinnig than
siblings and honest Benedict gave him the hand and said, as he faces
two years in the busy ungeheuersten removal was looking for.

"Since I was in the land of Egypt," said Felix, "and you would have me
there too little to inquire, for I was in the desert." Even the farmers
and their wives and children, who will appear before Niklas home
had umherstanden curious and respectable, he greeted all friendly,
aired the Reisehut , and submitted them, although unknown to the
hand.

At last we went into the house and went after Haide custom with many
neighbors, and were, as he presents and reports auspackte.

On the street it was quiet, the people searched for their Use their time
sleeping places, and the clouds glowed red Whit far above the
village.

IV The Haide residents.

And the other day as the first rays of the sun shone and the villagers
Haide already prepared in the solid plaster were to go to the
church to go far: it was one of the people more, and one of the
more church-goers.

The night had blurred Some people, [80] that he came, but the morning brought
them back to the new ownership, so that they can be feasted: The One
with their curiosity, the others with their love - but all had an
insecure Scheubeck even the parents, what it would be giving them
to him had been brought back, and if he is not a strange thing in
the rest of equality and monotony [81] of the village would be.

But he was already dressed, in the linen dress Haide and the wide Hute
outdoors, and looked with the big, shiny, soft eye with him, as
the mother came to him and asked him whether he also will go to
church, or whether he was tired, and worship God at home wanted to.

"I'm not tired," he replied kindly, "and I will go with you," because
he saw that the mother go to church dressed, and that the father in his
Sunday Rocke come from the house.

Festliche groups showed is here and there on the Anger of the village; Some
came closer and greeted others were bashfully back, especially the
girls, and others who remained at home, and loneliness in the feast
had to guard the village, were under the Hausthüren or otherwise
where, and looked on.

And yet Pfingstthau on Haide grasses sparkled and shone, and when the
morning chill blew, everything is already set in motion to anzulangen
right time - and so since Felix led the old woman in his hand, and so
tenderly, she headed to the gentle Haidebühel [82] hinan as him once since
he was a boy was weak and Sunday morning, the goats and sheep was
allowed to leave home, so he and beyond the word of God to hear.

The father was inwardly pleased beside the others Theil forward and some
backward. Finally the last group was behind the Bühel disappeared, the
review ends were returned to their homes, and shortly afterwards was
that sparkling solitude on the roofs, which are so fond of bright
Sunday morning in the abandoned villages, - the hour receded before
hotter and drier , a thin blue column of smoke rose here and there,
and in the middle of the garden of the house Haide the gaunt
grandmother knelt and prayed .-- And how finally after hours of
silence by the thin, soft air dormant, as it is sometimes at very
silent days zutrug, the distant sound, a fine Glöckleins came as
some form knelt on the turf down, and knocked on the chest - then
again, it was silent and remained silent ---- the sun's rays fell
on the houses down, more and more vertical, then oblique, that the
shadow on the other side - finally came to lunch, and with him all
the church-goers - they put the best clothes and towels from the
heated body, thats easy, and every house to be consumed vorgerichtetes
Pfingstmahl.

And what was it, what they brought back to Felix was, and why is he so
long had not come, and where is he been? you did not know. In the church,
he was with - almost as childish reverently, as once he had to the
words of the priest obeyed, sanftmüthig he was next to the mother
at home, and have then at table when the father took the floor, it
broke Felix his attention, and listened to - and in the evening he
sat with his grandmother in the shadow of Hollunderbusches, and
talked with her, which he quite strange and incomprehensible stories
vorlallte [83] --- and if so the date on the curiosity of the mother
looked into his eyes, half-hostile, half-pain rich, if the former
soft trains researched - its former serene, honesty, Haide beautiful
boys ---- they looked and behold, they found him in quiet lanes was
the picture of the kind characterized in the boys' faces of the
man, but infinitely more beautiful - so beautiful that it is often
a moment thought that she could not his mother - if it is the quiet
reflection of his eyes was directed against them, so circumspect
and so kind - or if that was the cheeks, almost as young as they
used to, only much darker tanned that opposed the teeth gleamed
like pearls, the same teeth that are already in the Haide boys so
innocent and shone healthy - and they are still around the same
sweet lips, but now mature, male, and so beautiful, as if once a
sweet word to indicate it's the love that's the instruction was
---- "He is still good," then in her jauchzte the mother's heart,
"he is still good, though much more refined, as we do."

And in That it was such a chaste purity shine to the man that he is
from the heart of the raw Haideweibes was recognized and honored.

What lived in it because that made him unangerührt through the world
that he left his body as a temple brought back, as he once made
of loneliness away ?

---- you did not know, just almost always cheerful and simple-submitted
his heart that [84] as well as the quiet hours of the feast gradually
verflossen. Late in the evening he told them, because all around the
table sat the white book, and Martha with her child was there, and
Benedict and other neighbors - he told them of the promised land,
as he was, like Jerusalem and Bethlehem, he saw, as he sat at the
Tabor, the Jordan into the Sinai ;---- washed, he had seen the awful
jagged mountains, and in the desert, he had changed .-- He told
them how his timbered chests with the postman would come, then he
will show them Earth, which he brought the holy countries - including
dried flowers, he had, and herbs, from that country and footsteps
of the Lord, and there was only ever create the earth and bring -
and a lot of sacred, much hotter and much lonelier ever had [85]
Haiden and deserts, than this, the more of a garden and call ----
as he talked, looked all on him, and listened - and they forgot
that it is sleeping time over that Abendröthe long verglommen that
the stars pulled up, and in dense Schaar shone on the roofs.

Of cities, the people and their driving, he had said nothing, and they had
not asked. The words of his mouth that so well that they precisely what
he said, the rights däuchte, and not by others, they asked. Marthe
was finally sleeping child away, Benedict was also, the neighbors
are away - and even more blessed and Freudenreich more than yesterday,
the parents went to bed, and even the father thought that Felix was
almost like a preacher and a priest of the Lord.

Also on the Haide, he was right after the holidays have gone to his
rostrum, he was sat, the beetles the flies, the moths, the voice
of the lark Haide and the eyes of the field mice were the same.

He roams the sun's rays stretch - there dawned the marsh, and a tremor and
chirp and sing ---- and as the father saw him walk, he had over
the thin gray hair go, and the calluses on the hand full of wrinkles
Given emphasize that he did not think his K hub still go there, and
it lacks only the goats and sheep that was like, and that the long,
long time just had a dream.

Even the neighbors, as he was day after day, they walked like him all the
children knew how he all the same, even with the ugly, so kindly spoke,
and as he was clothed by Linne in the new fields was - quite believed
clearly, he was one of them, and yet again it was quite clear how
he was a far different, than they are.

One That must tell us before we go further, and of his life to develop
what is available - a That which really should remain secret, but
spread out, and him with one heart of all residents Haide won.

When finally the timbered chests with the postman in the city, and
from there by car on the grain came Haide, when he presents it
hervorgesucht and ausgetheilt, as he demonstrated a thousand
Merkwürdige, flowers, feathers, stones, weapons - and all sufficiently
admired was - he joined the same day evening at the father in the
posterior chamber, as he had seen that the same entered and how he
likes that, in falling into the lilac shade had - he came in and
said uneasy almost with trembling voice: "Father, you have auferzogen
me, and I love done, since I live - but I have it bad soul, for I
am fortgegangen that you do not Gehülfe had your work and your
concern for the mother and grandmother - and when I come to your
warfet me nothing, but only WARET friendly and nice, I can not
repay, except that I did not leave you even more love and wants to
worship as usual so many years mußtet your , without looking into
my eyes to how it would wohlgethan your heart - but now I remain
always, always with you .-- I am alone because you God for Hülfe
was born, so I learned all sorts of outdoor science, thus I earned
my bread, and little as I needed, and this remained Some left for
you.

I will bring it now that you are applying to your house, [86] and in old
age bekommet Good, [87] and I ask you , father, take it with kindness.
"The old man, however, highly roth, trembling in front of shame and joy,
was wagon and pointed with both hands the papers presented by itself,
saying:" What comes at you, [88] Felix ? I'm so shocked - since before
God, [89] that I work hard and take my child - oh, my God, I have
nothing you can give, not even a different upbringing than you like the
Lord of the Haide was not even the pious heart that you came by
yourself .-- You owe me nothing - the children are a Gottesgabe
that we educate them, how they frommt, not how we help -- -forgive
me, I did not educate yourself, and it seems to me, did you become
so good, so good that I would like to weep for joy ."---- And he
hardly had the word out, so he in loud crying, and scanned according
to Felix clumsy hand - this gave her, he could not help, he had his
face against the shoulder of his father, press, and the rough cloth
of the skirt with its hottest Thränen networks.

The father was again silent, and almost schämend and reassuring, he said
the words: "You're intelligent than we are, Felix.

If you stay with us, working on what you want, do not I ask that you
help me - because Benedict is yes and his servants, if it Thäter
north, also I already have a savings that I have people have a
servant .-- You may take a little work but will be as God to go
and how it is right.

"But Felix thought in his heart that he would in the future, but if
it was necessary, dear That in itself, and just lack of power assist,
so that his heart does not hurt so Thäter when the father did nothing
good could bring. Ah, the best he has already brought, and did not
know it, the good, the heart overflowing, so everyone, even the
hardened father a joyful gem, as all goods of the earth, because
it does not pay to the outside, but wage in the deepest, innermost
soul.

The father now that no matter [90] and went with this and that in the
room thun [91], but was hardly Felix out, so he quickly ran to her
mother and told her son had thun want - but she folded her hands,
before the Saints ran pictures of the room and a prayer that the
half-a sacrilege Stürm the pride, half of the deepest thanks Demuth
was.

But then she went out and spread it out.

It was now clearly that it was good that he is gentle, loyal, and was soft,
and they saw also that he was beautiful and wonderful - they are
also not researched what it was and what it will be. And he went forth
, and was far away from the remote village on the Haide attach a piece
of land, and many workers began with a stone house to build .-- That
it would be bigger than he needs alone, fell on Allen, but when
it is in autumn was ready, as it was furnished and decorated, he
is equally well alone, and so passed the winter.

It came blüthenreiche spring - and Felix was sitting in his house on the
Haide, and was, like, on all its creatures, and above all the high
silent figures, they now populated.

What was it but what the parents and neighbors about him has been brought
back? you did not know. But I know it. A gift he has, which gives people
high, and it makes it unrecognized by his brothers - the only gift
on this earth that no human being can show itself.

On the Haide had begun to Haide he had to take it back.

When a goddess who has entered, smiling face, more beautiful than
anything Terrestrial, which can not otherwise thun when her serve
in Demuth.

Fortgegangen Back then he was, he knew not what he would be - a wealth
of knowledge he had in itself sucked: it was the next n ä thirst,
but he was not breastfed and he was among people, he sought them as
international - he had friends - he strove to continue, he hoped, wished
and worked for an unknown destination - even for goods in the world and
sought after possession of it: but through everything becomes - through
knowledge, works, people, property, it was always, as far back
shimmer procumbent something, like a shiny calm, like a gentle
solitude ---- had its Haide the heart, full of innocence, my childhood
Haide board?

or was it myself such a dear, quiet, bright Haide ?---- He searched
the desert and the wilds of the Orient, not brooding, not mourning, but
lonely, quiet, serene, seated .-- And so it was this gentle , quiet
sea back into the loneliness, and on his childhood Haide ---- and
if he now sat on the rostrum, just as if the surface of the sun
Haide trembled before him and filled with a swarm of figures like
, and some that it seems the silent eye of history, others with the
love of the blessed, the other great wide cloak Thater on Haide
schleifend - and when she told of her soul and fortunes of the dying
and what was subsequently , and others, in which the words can not
say - and if it is deep in the innermost was so devout that he often
said, than he can see far into the wasteland outside God itself, a
quiet form of silver: it was him infinitely large in the heart, he
was blessed that he could think what he thought - and it was him,
[92] that it was now as good as it was.

The nonsensical grandmother was the first, who had recognized him . 'There
are an infinite gifts on this earth ausgestreut been, "she one day
called," the stems of cereal, the sunlight and the winds of the
mountains - there are people who have the blessing of the crops
educate, and execute it in parts of the earth, there are those who
draw roads, build houses, then there are others who spread out the
gold, the hearts of the people grows, the Word, and the thoughts
of God to rise in the souls.

He is become, as one of the ancient seers and prophets, and he is
such, so hab 'ich vorausgewußt it, and I made him because I have
the seeds of the book of books thrown at him because he was always
soft as wax, hochgesinnt and, as one of the heroes.

"The grandmother was also there, with whom he alone employed more than
all the others with her, he was the only one who they could bring
unnecessary speeches, and the only one of her speeches understood,
he read it often comes from a book, and the hundred-year-old
schoolgirl listened hard, and her face was in sunlight, as you
should read this.

This was the last spring, it was Pentecost came back - but how it was
Pentecost dießmal other than a year ago. A double sultriness was
terrible on both the village and Felix, and both the lösete sultriness
on Whit days - but how different in both, I would like, before we,
by his simple life distinguish this latest results that I know, tell.

If he is so often the Haide came and went through the village, gifts
for the children of his pregnant sister, pebbles, shells, snails and
the like houses, which curls around the high forehead thrown, as
a war god, and yet the black eyes as longing and languishing: then
he was so beautiful and it probably helped him some of the prostitute
as a secret Haide idol hidden in the heart, but he himself had an
idol in the heart, - a single point sweet secret fortune he had
made the world worn when he was their posts and let Reichthümer -
a unique point by all the sweet deserts - and today, tomorrow, these
days, it should show whether his house built for himself alone, or
not .-- All the power of his soul He had an invitation to posses,
and with fear, he awaited the answer, the eternal, ever hesitated.

Well Pentecost came closer and closer, but at the sultriness, the
unknown and invisible on the heart was young, joined yet another threatening
the whole village, a ghost, with inaudible steps approaching, -
namely, those bright skies, to the Felix raised his eyes fervent
than those he had sent heavy Please, those bright sky, which perhaps
he was all alone emporgeblickt was since the time for weeks been a
brilliant, and probably one hundred eyes now looked anxiously at him.

The Triscoes themselves kept out of the Marches' way, or they fancied so;
Mrs. Adding and Rose alone remained of their daily encounter.

It was full summer, as it is everywhere in mid-August, but at Carlsbad
the sun was so late getting up over the hills that as people went to
their breakfasts at the cafes up the valley of the Tepl they found him
looking very obliquely into it at eight o'clock in the morning. The
yellow leaves were thicker about the feet of the trees, and the grass was
silvery gray with the belated dews. The breakfasters were fewer than they
had been, and there were more little barefooted boys and girls with cups
of red raspberries which they offered to the passers with cries of
"Himbeeren! Himbeeren!" plaintive as the notes of birds left songless by
the receding summer.

March was forbidden the fruit, but his wife and Mrs. Adding bought
recklessly of it, and ate it under his eyes with their coffee and bread,
pouring over it pots of clotted cream that the 'schone' Lili brought
them. Rose pretended an indifference to it, which his mother betrayed was
a sacrifice in behalf of March's inability.

Lili's delays in coming to be paid had been such that the Marches now
tried to pay her when she brought their breakfast, but they sometimes
forgot, and then they caught her whenever she came near them. In this
event she liked to coquet with their impatience; she would lean against
their table, and say: "Oh, no. You stay a little. It is so nice." One day
after such an entreaty, she said, "The queen is here, this morning."

Mrs. March started, in the hope of highhotes. "The queen!"

"Yes; the young lady. Mr. Burnamy was saying she was a queen. She is
there with her father." She nodded in the direction of a distant corner,
and the Marches knew that she meant Miss Triscoe and the general. "She is
not seeming so gayly as she was being."

March smiled. "We are none of us so gayly as we were being, Lili. The
summer is going."

"But Mr. Burnamy will be returning, not true?" the girl asked, resting
her tray on the corner of the table.

"No, I'm afraid he won't," March returned sadly.

"He was very good. He was paying the proprietor for the dishes that
Augusta did break when she was falling down. He was paying before he went
away, when he was knowing that the proprietor would make Augusta to pay."

"Ah!" said March, and his wife said, "That was like him!" and she eagerly
explained to Mrs. Adding how good and great Burnamy had been in this
characteristic instance, while Lili waited with the tray to add some
pathetic facts about Augusta's poverty and gratitude. "I think Miss
Triscoe ought to know it. There goes the wretch, now!" she broke off.
"Don't look at him!" She set her husband the example of averting his face
from the sight of Stoller sullenly pacing up the middle aisle of the
grove, and looking to the right and left for a vacant table. "Ugh! I hope
he won't be able to find a single place."

Mrs. Adding gave one of her pealing laughs, while Rose watched March's
face with grave sympathy. "He certainly doesn't deserve one. Don't let us
keep you from offering Miss Triscoe any consolation you can." They got
up, and the boy gathered up the gloves, umbrella, and handkerchief which
the ladies let drop from their laps.

"Have you been telling?" March asked his wife.

"Have I told you anything?" she demanded of Mrs. Adding in turn.
"Anything that you didn't as good as know, already?"

"Not a syllable!" Mrs. Adding replied in high delight. "Come, Rose!"

"Well, I suppose there's no use saying anything," said March, after she
left them.

"She had guessed everything, without my telling her," said his wife.

"About Stoller?"

"Well-no. I did tell her that part, but that was nothing. It was about
Burnamy and Agatha that she knew. She saw it from the first."

"I should have thought she would have enough to do to look after poor old
Kenby."

"I'm not sure, after all, that she cares for him. If she doesn't, she
oughtn't to let him write to her. Aren't you going over to speak to the
Triscoes?"

"No, certainly not. I'm going back to the hotel. There ought to be some
steamer letters this morning. Here we are, worrying about these strangers
all the time, and we never give a thought to our own children on the
other side of the ocean."

"I worry about them, too," said the mother, fondly. "Though there is
nothing to worry about," she added.

"It's our duty to worry," he insisted.

At the hotel the portier gave them four letters. There was one from each
of their children: one very buoyant, not to say boisterous, from the
daughter, celebrating her happiness in her husband, and the loveliness of
Chicago as a summer city ("You would think she was born out there!"
sighed her mother); and one from the son, boasting his well-being in
spite of the heat they were having ("And just think how cool it is here!"
his mother upbraided herself), and the prosperity of 'Every Other Week'.
There was a line from Fulkerson, praising the boy's editorial instinct,
and ironically proposing March's resignation in his favor.

"I do believe we could stay all winter, just as well as not," said Mrs.
He could simply not the loneliness anymore.

Certainly it was his other, the best clubs open.

Nothing was before, which prevented his entry, and after today's
victory would soon even the venomous transform into friendly faces
and hands him over to prevent stretch where he just wanted to take.

But it would never again be as it was was.

He would be the case, as in "Pike": a stranger among strangers. But what
should be for now - he started to gray for the future, because now
he saw in all, very clear. He realized how much he initially in relation
to themselves deceived. Gradually over the last few years, more and
more, he had become accustomed, only to see his only victory, only his
triumphs. So he then came the successes of other attached no importance,
to overlook, as far as were concerned. Certainly, it was no doubt
his name was the most famous of all, its unprecedented success, his
fame continue to squat when the fame of any German swimmer so far ...
But how many other names were not even apart, not together with
his called, if one of the masters said of swimming: old and new
names, new every day ...

He was not the only one who was master. There were a lot of championships,
even in Germany, who were in other hands, in which he is not
involved had not had to participate, if only because time and space
distance and statutes are prohibited.

There were also championships in Mehrkampf under which he was only
a single in his first and last attempt won his own called.

Then, finally jumping championships ... But he liked it no longer even
think! - So, not on an honor breast were all united. Enough that his was
the highest. He had a name, the best and most famous. But it was just
a name alongside and with others. There is still the first. Today more
than ever the first, and after this last victory called louder than ever
before .-- But how much longer - because it also saw fields for the first
time clear that there was a limit on the no hinauskam. Never had he
even confessed to, never even want to think about ... But now he also
deceived herein not more, and many a word occurred to him that the nail
and others several years ago warning to him talk. As long as the victory
of a career Grand Sport - As long as his best character.

A number of years, some less, some more.

But on a certain level it never went out. And in swimming? - If a same
championships, and some hiking prices three years in a row won, it was
already a big exception. Most any other force came in between them and
snatched him before the decision .-- If a swimmer for a few years the
championship over the short or long distance, or in any special
kind of swimming, in which he brought to the special skill, claimed
so it was just enough.

Certainly there was no victory, and the more numerous they are based
on a person accumulated, the more was the danger that this will soon
ousted from their places would be. Was one but even as fields, years of
victory over the rich, feared and envied everywhere been, then they were
all behind him, her, the "something could", and it had to defend himself
to the left and right, and none of the opponents from the eyes to leave.
It was not easy. Now fields felt how difficult it was, how much harder
it was from year to year - a time he had also informed can deceive.

In proud security gewiegt, he had held for invincible, until his eyes
were opened. In the first consternation, he wanted to blame a decline
in his strength and self-ascribe. He knew long ago that he was also
wrong. His own arrogance and conceit negligent, they were the main reasons
that all debts, what had happened. He had no more: not pride, not arrogance
anymore.

He knew a long time again, what is at stake, and how it was struggling
to adapt to the newly gained altitude to maintain.

He was ready. As on the first day the little boy was ready to attend
its first small victory all his small force to - so he was willing,
now struggling for his last victory. But why? - And for whom? - The joy
of victory was so that he could no longer divide. Not only more fear
and envy, hated his victory would be if he continues in this manner
erfocht. One would make it all ways. Had he not today seen as one for
a secret deal to him over there too ostentatiously cut, where it is not
the slightest fault?

- Did not hostility, even hatred against the "single-float" in the eyes
located? - Quiet become, he said, that the coincidence of the onset of
rain and other factors were involved, to inform him of this terrible
disappointment to prepare.

Otherwise it would be one or the other of his older friend from any
of the friendly clubs and certainly the passive sports enthusiasts
and connoisseurs, such as his old admirers, the rapporteur of the
"World Sports", and others came to him.

But the general animosity against the "single-float" would always remain,
and general joy his victories would never rise. Should he always remain
so, he, the individual against the powers of the closed club?

And the other dreams in which he gewiegt in this last, lonely time - they
were not equally unfounded and foolish? - After England wished he
go?

- All alone, without knowledge of the language in the foreign country
in order to measure these unknown forces of which he knew nothing,
except that they all were first in the world?

Why should he the means to travel to? And even if he went, if he has
overcome all the difficulties - what if he was subject to mockery and
ridicule and was heimgeschickt? - Then it was finally made ... Or should
he really crazy idea to execution, and his art into a profession? The
whole sports sector and turn our backs on the world as a
professional pass through? Any other job to concentrate on a few things
to disorder and then practice from city to city and from country to country,
and themselves as "Artist" anstaunen approved? - That was certainly
the most foolish was his fantasies, and he laughed himself out. That could
not he just! - All that remains So what was still a few years, as long
as possible just on the amount recovered to keep the narrow ridge
to defend dizzy, until one day the abyss of oblivion and devoured
him.

For how long was the whole glory nor take? - In the best case a few years.
Then was also the past. Then, the new, fresh, young forces moved into
the field, which is now in the silence ripens with fluttering flags and
sounding game, and who are not even smart enough at the right time
avoided, which was simply outdated, torn to the ground, niedergestampft
.

Then, the first real defeat, which, according to which there is no
longer up there. For while he has stood still, and about their own
power could not be more out, who marched, and "space - space at
last for us!" she screams. They would win, simply because they
were young.

Its new name would swallow up the old, and even a few years of a
last, desperate, despairing struggle in which the old shine more
and more erblaßte - and everything was over, forget it all together,
and while it still lives on, They were, in fact, already dead, and
nobody cared more about her faded ribbons and medals, the last
testimony of former triumphs, of which only the patient nor her
friends could tell, and not without them, the yawning boredom or
the smile of pity cause.

Thus it was at all. Thus, it would also with him at Franz fields, his
- because there was no exception, _not_.

For most of the military formed the time limit. These years of fallow
for the sport of only a few survived. The farewell party, which convened
its annual club members were meant for most of them also the farewell
of their sporting careers.

Few had even after their return to power and the lust, the goals of their
youth once again and in new circumstances with new struggles to dare.
Many preserved Case still interested, but life called them, and
how the student Philisterium ins, so they went into their profession,
and soon he and the newly formed family.

Not all of them. Absolutely not.

There were some who, even during this time nor military power and
lust had found the old skills are not quite asleep, and to
weiterzupflegen.

They returned and were quickly back on the old height. Some are only now
won its greatest successes, while others seemed to back the practice
"in the arms" until her whole body strength to have worked out.

When Fields took everything not to. In his outspoken bias that never
another activity, such as one that had allowed that it could fail in that
attempt of jumping, it dawned before the time, which is already so close
before him was. He knew not how it should be over: in a dirty barracks
without water!

- And if he survived - what then? - Still a few years. Another time,
new and unprecedented effort. Again, new successes, such as today, the
missing name again before the eyes of all were, once again envied, feared,
hated - and then the inexorable fall of the level, either rapid fall or
a constant, painful choices, step by step . He is no longer deceived. He
saw very clearly. He knew he would be: the two years of service to survive
in new training and take many years - longer than any before it -
honest to keep the full amount.

He needed not to despair. So great was his love of the thing - he had
tried, they would help him again. He knew he would be almost impossible
to. _Aber So nicht_. Not under these circumstances. Not alone, not so
alone. It was in vain to give it a try. After missing the joy, the joy,
the courage and strength he lent, to climb so high, the joy of
hope, which he helped the last bitter time to survive: the joy
shared with other .-- But what should be for now - he was hopelessly
verstiegen and knew not where.

How should he live? - He did not reply. 9 A unbearable heat brooded
over Berlin. The man breathed hard in this atmosphere of dust and haze.
Fields nor did his work, but he swam no more. At night he sat somewhere
and saw before him, like a man, no way out of his mind finds more, or
he went with the same rigid view through the hot streets, until he was
tired.

He lived as he had lived, the terrible months in this last time, all to
itself and yet different - because if it was still a great hope had
accompanied, as he is now completely alone: he saw and heard nothing
more, even of the things in his world, the narrow, small and yet
everything important to him, was experiencing, but by no more
newspapers, and the page that dreiundachtzigste in the small, brown
paper that he is no longer with him, remained empty: the page on
which the greatest of all victories could be included and not ...

It was like everything was cut off. It was all gone .-- He hardly ever
spoke a word more. So he had lived fourteen days. Then one day he
felt that his life could no longer endure. Something that he himself knew
not what was broken in him , and hence its power to life. He felt it
clearly. It does not use this thinking to get out. He did not overlook.
It was as if everything would be dead within him: suddenly cut through
all the sinews of an immense disappointment .-- It was a Sunday,
one of them empty, with no work and no joy made more bearable days,
and erwälzte on his hard bed in his small room in dull despair,
back and forth.

What should he do? - He knew no more. He had no parents, no siblings,
no friends, no lover more.

His life was pointless become useless and joyless.

And as he beat with his hands, something rustled on him down: dried bay
leaves, the traps in the low-dust fell apart. He took the chaff in the
hand.

It was his first victory wreath: erfochten as boy in the first little
swim, his first timid attempt, his first victory. And as he saw what
it was, what he held in his hand, because he saw both himself and
his whole life, and it seemed to him, as were all these wreaths,
and described the printed documents, the pictures on the walls,
zerstaubt , disintegrate and become nothing, like this, and nothing
of anything left over, as a small pile of dry dust, which at the
end of all life is.

As he turned away from this decaying and lifeless things, these
bodies of modernden been and a terrible longing for that which alone
is life for him, seized him.

He dressed hurriedly and left everything behind .-- He went all through
the afternoon heat and the dust and the throng of people on Sunday: the
Treptow Park, gray and sober dove under the summer at the cottage eggs
on the Spree past, and partly on the shore, then to the desolate road
that was covered with carriages and cyclists until Koepenick, where
he was in the front of any economy, a glass of beer drank. And so he
went on until he came to Grünau - hour by the hour as he walked the long,
hazy afternoon, and wherever he went, the gardens were full of people,
and on the dämmernden Uferweg appeared on more and more new characters,
which could not yet decide the delicious freshness of the evening against
the dull einzutauschen Houses mass of a big city. But he had to be
alone, quite alone, and so he went without hunger and thirst to feel,
through Grünau, past the sports field, which lay dark and empty, and his
heart was so tired and discouraged, that it is even here, not even
more later ... beat further and further, always in the paths of
countless wide banks of the lakes along ...

Finally he was alone. Finally he met no one. It was late at night.

No living being shown here in the broad area of sky, forest and water ...
As he stood still, and disposes of his clothes. Naked, he stood there, and
the air of the night plays around his hot, dusty and schweißbedeckten
body. Slowly Franz joined fields to the water and saw it after
it the whole afternoon - and for how long already! - shunned his sight.
But for the first time, it seemed to him as if not reciprocated his
greeting. Mute and indifferent as it was. Why not heard it since the
silent desperation Please? - And slowly, almost timidly, he sat foot in
front of the foot until it reached his knees, then sank into the mud and
hugged it quietly. Nudity, as was a small boy, he clings to his
dark chest. And swam.
He pressed
down upon them, and laying a rude hand on a shoulder of either, began to
force them back to the door. The mild nature of the editor might have
yielded to his violence, but the martial spirit of General Triscoe was
roused. He shrugged the gendarme's hand from his shoulder, and with a
voice as furious as his own required him, in English, to say what the
devil he meant. The gendarme rejoined with equal heat in German; the
general's tone rose in anger; the dancing-girls emitted some little
shrieks of alarm, and fled noisily up the stairs. From time to time March
interposed with a word of the German which had mostly deserted him in his
hour of need; but if it had been a flow of intelligible expostulation, it
would have had no effect upon the disputants. They grew more outrageous,
till the manager himself, appeared at the head of the stairs, and
extended an arresting hand over the hubbub. As soon as the situation
clarified itself he hurried down to his visitors with a polite roar of
apology and rescued them from the gendarme, and led them up to his room
and forced them into arm-chairs with a rapidity of reparation which did
not exhaust itself till he had entreated them with every circumstance of
civility to excuse an incident so mortifying to him. But with all his
haste he lost so much time in this that he had little left to show them
through the theatre, and their presentation to the prima donna was
reduced to the obeisances with which they met and parted as she went upon
the stage at the lifting of the curtain. In the lack of a common language
this was perhaps as well as a longer interview; and nothing could have
been more honorable than their dismissal at the hands of the gendarme who
had received them so stormily. He opened the door for them, and stood
with his fingers to his cap saluting, in the effect of being a whole file
of grenadiers.


XLIII.

At the same moment Burnamy bowed himself out of the box where he had been
sitting with the ladies during the absence of the gentlemen. He had
knocked at the door almost as soon as they disappeared, and if he did not
fully share the consternation which his presence caused, he looked so
frightened that Mrs. March reserved the censure which the sight of him
inspired, and in default of other inspiration treated his coming simply
as a surprise. She shook hands with him, and then she asked him to sit
down, and listened to his explanation that he had come back to Carlsbad
to write up the birthnight festivities, on an order from the Paris-New
York Chronicle; that he had seen them in the box and had ventured to took
in. He was pale, and so discomposed that the heart of justice was
softened more and more in Mrs. March's breast, and she left him to the
talk that sprang up, by an admirable effect of tact in the young lady,
between him and Miss Triscoe.

After all, she decided, there was nothing criminal in his being in
Carlsbad, and possibly in the last analysis there was nothing so very
wicked in his being in her box. One might say that it was not very nice
of him after he had gone away under such a cloud; but on the other hand
it was nice, though in a different way, if he longed so much to see Miss
Triscoe that he could not help coming. It was altogether in his favor
that he was so agitated, though he was momently becoming less agitated;
the young people were beginning to laugh at the notion of Mr. March and
General Triscoe going behind the scenes. Burnamy said he envied them the
chance; and added, not very relevantly, that he had come from Baireuth,
where he had seen the last of the Wagner performances. He said he was
going back to Baireuth, but not to Ansbach again, where he had finished
looking up that Kaspar Hauser business. He seemed to think Mrs. March
would know about it, and she could not help saying; Oh, yes, Mr. March
was so much interested. She wondered if she ought to tell him about his
handkerchief; but she remembered in time that she had left it in Miss
Triscoe's keeping. She wondered if the girl realized how handsome he was.
He was extremely handsome, in his black evening dress, with his Tuxedo,
and the pallor of his face repeated in his expanse of shirt front.

At the bell for the rising of the curtain he rose too, and took their
offered hands. In offering hers Mrs. March asked if he would not stay and
speak with Mr. March and the general; and now for the first time he
recognized anything clandestine in his visit. He laughed nervously, and
said, "No, thank you!" and shut himself out.

"We must tell them," said Mrs. March, rather interrogatively, and she was
glad that the girl answered with a note of indignation.

"Why, certainly, Mrs. March."

They could not tell them at once, for the second act had begun when March
and the general came back; and after the opera was over and they got out
into the crowded street there was no chance, for the general was obliged
to offer his arm to Mrs. March, while her husband followed with his
daughter.

The facades of the theatre and of the hotels were outlined with thickly
set little lamps, which beaded the arches of the bridges spanning the
Tepl, and lighted the casements and portals of the shops. High above all,
against the curtain of black woodland on the mountain where its skeleton
had been growing for days, glittered the colossal effigy of the
doubleheaded eagle of Austria, crowned with the tiara of the Holy Roman
Empire; in the reflected splendor of its myriad lamps the pale Christ
looked down from the mountain opposite upon the surging multitudes in the
streets and on the bridges.

They were most amiable multitudes, March thought, and they responded
docilely to the entreaties of the policemen who stood on the steps of the
bridges, and divided their encountering currents with patient appeals of
"Bitte schon! Bitte schon!" He laughed to think of a New York cop saying
"Please prettily! Please prettily!" to a New York crowd which he wished
to have go this way or that, and then he burned with shame to think how
far our manners were from civilization, wherever our heads and hearts
might be, when he heard a voice at his elbow:

"A punch with a club would start some of these fellows along quicker."

It was Stoller, and March turned from him to lose his disgust in the
sudden terror of perceiving that Miss Triscoe was no longer at his side.
Neither could he see his wife and General Triscoe, and he began to push
frantically about in the crowd looking for the girl. He had an
interminable five or ten minutes in his vain search, and he was going to
call out to her by name, when Burnamy saved him from the hopeless
absurdity by elbowing his way to him with Miss. Triscoe on his arm.

"Here she is, Mr. March," he said, as if there were nothing strange in
his having been there to find her; in fact he had followed them all from
the theatre, and at the moment he saw the party separated, and Miss
Triscoe carried off helpless in the human stream, had plunged in and
rescued her. Before March could formulate any question in his
bewilderment, Burnamy was gone again; the girl offered no explanation for
him, and March had not yet decided to ask any when he caught sight of his
wife and General Triscoe standing tiptoe in a doorway and craning their
necks upward and forward to scan the crowd in search of him and his
charge. Then he looked round at her and opened his lips to express the
astonishment that filled him, when he was aware of an ominous shining of
her eyes and trembling of her hand on his arm.

She pressed his arm nervously, and he understood her to beg him to
forbear at once all question of her and all comment on Burnamy's presence
to her father.

It would not have been just the time for either. Not only Mrs. March was
with the general, but Mrs. Adding also; she had called to them from that
place, where she was safe with Rose when she saw them eddying about in
the crowd. The general was still, expressing a gratitude which became
more pressing the more it was disclaimed; he said casually at sight of
his daughter, "Ah; you've found us, have you?" and went on talking to
Mrs. Adding, who nodded to them laughingly, and asked, "Did you see me
beckoning?"

"Look here, my dear!" March said to his wife as soon as they parted from
the rest, the general gallantly promising that his daughter and he would
see Mrs. Adding safe to her hotel, and were making their way slowly home
alone. "Did you know that Burnamy was in Carlsbad?"

"He's going away on the twelve-o'clock train tonight," she answered,
firmly.

"What has that got to do with it? Where did you see him?"

"In the box, while you were behind the scenes."

She told him all about it, and he listened in silent endeavor for the
ground of censure from which a sense of his own guilt forced him. She
asked suddenly, "Where did you see him?" Fathers belonged but to paint the house ...

Yes, he is remembered now dark, but also very dark.

So often, as she said, "always", they could not be played, because
he was usually been continued, on the water.

But that they knew as children had had enough, because now he even
remembered her name: Elise Heinecke. - Well, you would not recognize me,
Miss Heinecke! - Yes, do you think I -- But, as we recently your name
in the "morning paper" read, said the father, if the fields are
probably the same, the dazumal fruit in the street from us lived,
and because he knows everything, he is equal to the Lord Faßbender
what but the chairman of your club is gone, and he has said if we
wanted to convince us, we needed only to Grünau today to make because
you know we would shine in your view.

"Join us!" said father, and at the station because we have also met your
parents. No, but you can swim! The last comment made Franz warm.
Anyway, he knew not what it was, but she liked him extremely. It was so
easy to deal with her to entertain. She asked, and always understood
things to ask what he knew the answer to give. And if he were not, so she
immediately took it further and not bad.

The swimming was over, and the large garden was filled to the last place
with friends and sports spectators. Everywhere at the tables clustered
the thirsty members of the many clubs and their numerous relatives.

Quite close to the water on the other side had the S.-CB 1879 - today
the focus of all others - a long table reserved. The fields are already
missed by all sides, from its people and fortgeholt was found, he
was astonished to hear how quickly time had passed.

He had to promise, after the prize-giving back to partake of the punch
to take, and the old Heinecke, proud of its successful work, told
him at least three times, it was only applied to him.

Important, however, was for Franz, which is also the daughter said, as he
went: "Yes, Mr. Fields, come back soon.

You need me to say much about your victories to tell." He thought of it
as he sat among his friends, and for the first time, as long as he could
imagine, he would have a different society than that of his preferred
club, and again he looked after the tables over from where a white
dress like greeting to him herüberschimmerte.

But when the price distribution in the great hall of the restaurant,
when he made the hands of the first Chair of the Association of
beautiful large gold medal and won him the broad, tri-colored tape
on which they hung around the neck was as to his ear the words
suggested to him was - -: "Well never is a victory, as the present,
from one so young has been gained strength.

But its value has increased, is the impeccable manner in which it was
obtained. By looking at you, Mr Franz fields, therefore, hereby the
price of your great victory, by all German swimmers at the hottest
popular, rich, I can no other desire than to the expression: Do all
of your future victories, my young masters from Germany, so pure
and beautiful like this today ... "- as those words sounded to Felder's
ear and then return to the unbridled jubilation of the whole hall
umtoste because he had everything, everything in the world forget, to
his beloved sport, and only a desire, a yearning held him recaptured :
always worthy to show the high and great honor of this day.

So it was very simple, warm words of the old gentleman taken a long
time that he needed to collect. Everyone wanted to talk to him, all him
and his Ehrenzeichen see.

They moved it to this table and those who were over him open hands
and filled glasses entgegengestreckt he had to respond, initiate and
mittrinken, and when he finally remembered his promise and returned to
the table, where the punch him, his family and expected a young girl,
began as the first shadows of evening fall. As it once, he was right
back in the spell of this brown, merry eyes. He accepted the
congratulations of his family and a long, bombastic speech of thick
homeowner out there because he had, but he spoke almost exclusively
with her.

Sulked you only a little with him that he had rather not, but they
understood it that he at one such days have many obligations, because
if they are, how they laughed and said that probably his oldest
friends here in the garden, says he knew it all better than they are.

She told him how she had been in the hall and very close to the grandstand
stood, so that they have heard every word.

They admired his new charge after medal, and read word for word the inscription
on the gang, but they, like cuddling, glide through the left hand. Then
she came to the earlier statements interrupted its other prices, and
new Franz had their origin and significance of each explained.

So they learned from everything that his life so far content and value,
and they seemed genuinely interested, so that Fields said: This is not
only a beautiful, but also a smart girl.

Later, they went together through the garden, and then she questions
the answer to him was joy.

She wanted to know who is involved in this, that and the tables were,
whether friends or fernstehende clubs were. She asked for the names
of those whose breast, as his, was covered with prices of goods .--
Springer, or float it, as he - he had already fought with them and had
them beaten? It made her seem joy, so at his side through the rows of
tables to go, to see how fields everywhere, and shouts of greetings
were accompanied, and with views to be.

In the same rooms where the prize distribution took place, was now danced.
When she heard that he had something to dance, but do not worry, they
also said that there could be no special pleasure, in the hot and
overcrowded rooms is herumzudrehen, where it is so beautiful out there now
it had become cool. The punch was almost empty, and everywhere in the
garden, the lights were burning, as they walk by their table to their
return.

It was of course again, and had been present after Franz asked.

The old people were tired and wanted to go home. The children slept on the
part already, and it broke, since it the colossal crowd of the last
trains and the danger is no longer to keep up, wanted to escape. Sun
broke the whole society together. Francis wanted to be accompanied to
the station before he was finally reunited with his comrades joined. It
was in a long line through the pine forest of about ten minutes
away from station.

It was like saying that the young man and young girl were the last.

When the lights of the houses in Grünau were behind them, they surrounded
the darkness of the forest, and they were only the shouts of them
before going to hear, without the right to make more different.

The two were close together, so was the narrow path. Unsure of his direction
in the deep darkness in the dense coniferous, was that they were
touched when she searched with her steps. She had become mute, and he
no longer asked of her, did not know what he should say.

They had pretty much left behind, because the talk and the laughter
of your back to them sounded like the distant future. Again they came
together in the darkness, and he listened as they laughed. Your courage
made him laugh, and he asked: - If you do not I give my arm, Miss?
Otherwise you will still fall. - Take me by the hand, she replied,
and he felt her soft, warm in his fingers. And then - as it came,
he knew not - did they both are. He put his arm around her waist and
bent down to kiss them. He ran only against their broad Sommerhut touched
her cheek and then kissed the middle of the mouth. She held very still.
Then she said only: - Not yet, Mr. Fields ...-- But she does not let
his hands go, and after a few steps, they are again. This time he needed
not to seek, as they lifted him to the face upwards, and he kissed it
again and again and again, and he is not mistaken when he felt her
mouth as her mouth always looked at anew.

Finally, however important they back from him. - We need to hurry, she
said hurriedly and forcefully, the others have been at the station.
They went hand in hand as quickly as possible, but none of them spoke
a word. It was the forwards drove. Before them in front of them brighter
and brighter flashing lights hinaustraten, he looked at them once again
by the hand back. But she said: - No, no. We must hurry .-- And they went
further. They were of the whole society, as they came from the forest.
They all waited outside the station to the departure of the train. The
old Heinecke made a rude face and went to his daughter. We looked
at the waiting room. The train was late of course. There, in the
terrible heat of the narrowness and vollgedrängten space, fields are
searched in vain the girl once again to approach. Only when all finally
poured onto the platform, he has her say a few words to say: - You will
be quite safe in eight days on the cooking Seefestspiele come? - Father
was very angry, she whispered back, - but they wanted to see ... The
expression of her face appeared to him quite changed, as they
passed on him. All seemed to ease out of it waned and it was a totally
different than what he had just held in his arms. As they are all
in the already overcrowded course were housed - some here, others
there, all but torn apart -- and parents and relatives said goodbye,
he looked at it again with the eyes.

But he was no longer the department, where she was entered. Hurried he
went his way to the back garden. He felt so light and happy as never before
in his life. When he joined his friends, he was cheering, but also with
unmutes comments about his absence received.

Whether he is probably long enough gesimpelt family have? - And another
cried out on the table: - Let him, Francis has a bride ...-- fields
cared about nothing, but grabbed a glass. He was thirsty, thirsty
and happy, and he himself was not evil, as it a third party in confidential
whispers täppischer: - You, the little Heinecke you have to stick to
it. The old man has Moneten such as hay. Two wooden seats in the north
... Whether he probably had _darum_ care! - He knew not even what the
old man was. But he had already thought that the comments now could
not materialize.

A high spirits seized him, otherwise he was quite strange. He heard not
what the others said.

He laughed and drank and had them talk. A beautiful girl, a smart girl,
and how they could kiss ...

It was a beautiful summer evening, soft and warm. The broad area
of water was still and black and only from her other side, some
blinking lights. The benches and tables were empty and blank. But still
around midnight, when the swarm had lost, came to the tables of the 79er
some of the most prestigious sporting comrades together in order to log
in to a last Glase again the victory of the day to celebrate, and under
all this and honors all the previous celebrations was no more beautiful
and valuable for the young champion than the simple and ungrudging
admiration to him the best of their art in this late hour darbrachten,
turning towards him joined. Again, he was quite the swimmer, it was with
heart and soul, and felt it again here, only here among his family, at
home than anywhere else in the world. It was not until long after
midnight Brünings Motor climbed and safely steered elegant vehicle
silently on the flat shores vorüberglitt, while the fatigue on the corners
in the squatting and lying spread, his thoughts turned again to
the young girl back, which he now held in his arms and his kisses
so submissive and so dearly had replied, and he was in this silent
hours the yearning desire not resist, once again these lips with
his touch, this soft lips, so understanding to ask to smile so
friendly and so hot to kiss understood. 10 Eight days later, he
swam on the celebrations of the "German Wettschwimmkartells."

For the first time, as long as fields are involved in the fighting,
his thoughts were not entirely unanimous in its task, although it is
not a safe swimming for him. There was a migrant vielbegehrten price,
which after three years, year to year victory in the possession of the
club transferred, the price of the Charlottenburg, for the second time
to win, and Fields knew quite well that his big victory last Sunday's
opponents only had heated. Was the winner of the penultimate year
of Biedermann First Charlottenburger Swim Club ", among his opponents
and burned to him today already challenged only once, then lost his
own price to make disputed city. He knew so well that he had zusammenzunehmen.
But he was not as calm as usual Repeatedly overflew his eye the crowds,
to the defined banks of the water slowly, the rows of spectator benches
began to fill, without including the white dress with a red stocking hat
and large to be identified.

Even as his swimming began, and he went to the starting line, his eyes
still looked at the dense throng a figure to distinguish, without that
he succeeded. Was she came, as they promised? Or not? He thought again
and again because, as he stood in the water and swam the first
length. And so it came that he had in the middle of the fourth suddenly
close to the Charlottenburger and next to a second respondent was that
he did not even knew who it was, so he had little competition in the
memory. A huge horror through him. With delve mighty stroke, he was
lying next to him behind her, reached Biedermann, proposed shortly
before him, and believed to have triumphed. But while he is calm at
the bar stopped and looked down, he saw to his infinite astonishment
both, only one, then the other, start a new length - and as he
suddenly realized that he was an entire length was erroneous, they
were already around him a few meters ahead and the other part already
beside him, and partly also at the end of this length.

When they found the Little
Goose Man, he was only a mediaeval fancy in bronze, who stood on his
pedestal in the market-place and contributed from the bill of the goose
under his arm a small stream to the rainfall drenching the wet wares of
the wet market-women round the fountain, and soaking their cauliflowers
and lettuce, their grapes and pears, their carrots and turnips, to the
watery flavor of all fruits and vegetables in Germany.

The air was very raw and chill; but after supper the clouds cleared away,
and a pleasant evening tempted the travellers out. The portier dissembled
any slight which their eagerness for the only amusement he could think of
inspired, and directed them to a popular theatre which was giving a
summer season at low prices to the lower classes, and which they
surprised, after some search, trying to hide itself in a sort of back
square. They got the best places at a price which ought to have been
mortifyingly cheap, and found themselves, with a thousand other harmless
bourgeois folk, in a sort of spacious, agreeable barn, of a decoration by
no means ugly, and of a certain artless comfort. Each seat fronted a
shelf at the back of the seat before it, where the spectator could put
his hat; there was a smaller shelf for his stein of the beer passed
constantly throughout the evening; and there was a buffet where he could
stay himself with cold ham and other robust German refreshments.

It was "The Wedding Journey to Nuremberg" upon which they had oddly
chanced, and they accepted as a national tribute the character of an
American girl in it. She was an American girl of the advanced pattern,
and she came and went at a picnic on the arm of a head waiter. She seemed
to have no office in the drama except to illustrate a German conception
of American girlhood, but even in this simple function she seemed rather
to puzzle the German audience; perhaps because of the occasional English
words which she used.

To the astonishment of her compatriots, when they came out of the theatre
it was not raining; the night was as brilliantly starlit as a night could
be in Germany, and they sauntered home richly content through the narrow
streets and through the beautiful old Damenthor, beyond which their hotel
lay. How pretty, they said, to call that charming port the Ladies' Gate!
They promised each other to find out why, and they never did so, but
satisfied themselves by assigning it to the exclusive use of the slim
maidens and massive matrons of the old Nuremberg patriciate, whom they
imagined trailing their silken splendors under its arch in perpetual
procession.


XLV.

The life of the Nuremberg patriciate, now extinct in the control of the
city which it builded so strenuously and maintained so heroically, is
still insistent in all its art. This expresses their pride at once and
their simplicity with a childish literality. At its best it is never so
good as the good Italian art, whose influence is always present in its
best. The coloring of the great canvases is Venetian, but there is no
such democracy of greatness as in the painting at Venice; in decoration
the art of Nuremberg is at best quaint, and at the worst puerile.
Wherever it had obeyed an academic intention it seemed to March poor and
coarse, as in the bronze fountain beside the Church of St. Lawrence. The
water spins from the pouted breasts of the beautiful figures in streams
that cross and interlace after a fancy trivial and gross; but in the base
of the church there is a time-worn Gethsemane, exquisitely affecting in
its simple-hearted truth. The long ages have made it even more affecting
than the sculptor imagined it; they have blurred the faces and figures in
passing till their features are scarcely distinguishable; and the
sleeping apostles seem to have dreamed themselves back into the
mother-marble. It is of the same tradition and impulse with that supreme
glory of the native sculpture, the ineffable tabernacle of Adam Krafft,
which climbs a column of the church within, a miracle of richly carven
story; and no doubt if there were a Nuremberg sculptor doing great things
today, his work would be of kindred inspiration.

The descendants of the old patrician who ordered the tabernacle at rather
a hard bargain from the artist still worship on the floor below, and the
descendants of his neighbor patricians have their seats in the pews
about, and their names cut in the proprietary plates on the pew-tops. The
vergeress who showed the Marches through the church was devout in the
praise of these aristocratic fellow-citizens of hers. "So simple, and yet
so noble!" she said. She was a very romantic vergeress, and she told them
at unsparing length the legend of the tabernacle, how the artist fell
asleep in despair of winning his patron's daughter, and saw in a vision
the master-work with the lily-like droop at top, which gained him her
hand. They did not realize till too late that it was all out of a novel
of Georg Ebers's, but added to the regular fee for the church a gift
worthy of an inedited legend.

Even then they had a pleasure in her enthusiasm rarely imparted by the
Nuremberg manner. They missed there the constant, sweet civility of
Carlsbad, and found themselves falling flat in their endeavors for a
little cordiality. They indeed inspired with some kindness the old woman
who showed them through that cemetery where Albert Durer and Hans Sachs
and many other illustrious citizens lie buried under monumental brasses
of such beauty:

   "That kings to have the like, might wish to die."

But this must have been because they abandoned themselves so willingly to
the fascination of the bronze skull on the tomb of a fourteenth-century
patrician, which had the uncommon advantage of a lower jaw hinged to the
upper. She proudly clapped it up and down for their astonishment, and
waited, with a toothless smile, to let them discover the bead of a nail
artfully figured in the skull; then she gave a shrill cackle of joy, and
gleefully explained that the wife of this patrician had killed him by
driving a nail into his temple, and had been fitly beheaded for the
murder.

She cared so much for nothing else in the cemetery, but she consented to
let them wonder at the richness of the sculpture in the level tombs, with
their escutcheons and memorial tablets, overrun by the long grass and the
matted ivy; she even consented to share their indignation at the
destruction of some of the brasses and the theft of others. She suffered
more reluctantly their tenderness for the old, old crucifixion figured in
sculpture at one corner of the cemetery, where the anguish of the Christ
had long since faded into the stone from which it had been evoked, and
the thieves were no longer distinguishable in their penitence or
impenitence; but she parted friends with them when she saw how much they
seemed taken with the votive chapel of the noble Holzschuh family, where
a line of wooden shoes puns upon the name in the frieze, like the line of
dogs which chase one another, with bones in their mouths, around the
Canossa palace at Verona. A sense of the beautiful house by the Adige was
part of the pleasing confusion which possessed them in Nuremberg whenever
they came upon the expression of the gothic spirit common both to the
German and northern Italian art. They knew that it was an effect which
had passed from Germany into Italy, but in the liberal air of the older
land it had come to so much more beauty that now, when they found it in
its home, it seemed something fetched from over the Alps and coarsened in
the attempt to naturalize it to an alien air.

In the Germanic Museum they fled to the Italian painters from the German
pictures they had inspired; in the great hall of the Rathhaus the noble
Processional of Durer was the more precious, because his Triumph of
Maximilian somehow suggested Mantegna's Triumph of Caesar. There was to
be a banquet in the hall, under the mighty fresco, to welcome the German
Emperor, coming the next week, and the Rathhaus was full of work-people
furbishing it up against his arrival, and making it difficult for the
custodian who had it in charge to show it properly to strangers. She was
of the same enthusiastic sisterhood as the vergeress of St. Lawrence and
the guardian of the old cemetery, and by a mighty effort she prevailed
over the workmen so far as to lead her charges out through the corridor
where the literal conscience of the brothers Kuhn has wrought in the roof
to an exact image of a tournament as it was in Nuremberg four hundred
years ago. In this relief, thronged with men and horses, the gala-life of
the past survives in unexampled fulness; and March blamed himself after
enjoying it for having felt in it that toy-figure quality which seems the
final effect of the German gothicism in sculpture.


XLVI.

On Sunday Mrs. March partially conformed to an earlier New England ideal
of the day by ceasing from sight-seeing. She could not have understood
the sermon if she had gone to church, but she appeased the lingering
conscience she had on this point by not going out till afternoon. Then
she found nothing of the gayety which Sunday afternoon wears in Catholic
lands. The people were resting from their week-day labors, but they were
not playing; and the old churches, long since converted to Lutheran uses,
were locked against tourist curiosity.

It was as it should be; it was as it would be at home; and yet in this
ancient city, where the past was so much alive in the perpetual
picturesqueness, the Marches felt an incongruity in it; and they were
fain to escape from the Protestant silence and seriousness of the streets
to the shade of the public garden they had involuntarily visited the
evening of their arrival.

On a bench sat a quiet, rather dejected man, whom March asked some
question of their way. He answered in English, and in the parley that
followed they discovered that they were all Americans. The stranger
proved to be an American of the sort commonest in Germany, and he said he
had returned to his native country to get rid of the ague which he had
taken on Staten Island. He had been seventeen years in New York, and now
a talk of Tammany and its chances in the next election, of pulls and
deals, of bosses and heelers, grew up between the civic step-brothers,
and joined them is a common interest. The German-American said he was
bookkeeper in some glass-works which had been closed by our tariff, and
he confessed that he did not mean to return to us, though he spoke of
German affairs with the impartiality of an outsider. He said that the
Socialist party was increasing faster than any other, and that this
tacitly meant the suppression of rank and the abolition of monarchy. He
warned March against the appearance of industrial prosperity in Germany;
beggary was severely repressed, and if poverty was better clad than with
us, it was as hungry and as hopeless in Nuremberg as in New York. The
working classes were kindly and peaceable; they only knifed each other
quietly on Sunday evenings after having too much beer.

The lady was very elegantly dressed, sat back in her chair, and while
Felder's view from the perspective of the hall to her back, he
noticed how she installations. He looked to continue. When he then
randomly after a while return to the table hinübersah, he saw her eyes
still directed at the so unrelated and that any error was excluded, and
he could not escape the feeling that it During this whole time so people
had to be done. This time, he turned even faster and even more carefully
considered the ceiling, the walls and the other guests.

He was uncomfortable, so angestiert zuwerden. Then - as he looked back a
few minutes, convinced the peculiarly solid and quiet eyes no longer
involved, he saw the same lady as before back in her chair and her eyes
unrelated to rest his history. This time their eyes met each other: the
restless Felder, challenging, questioning, the strangers remain calm,
think, almost indifferent, when it was obvious that she designs
in this manner, and without the slightest change in how you look,
also remained the expression of their trains.

He was restless. Now he knew that he could not be fooled. He grabbed
a newspaper, staring uncomprehendingly at a political cartoon of
the "Merry Leaves" and was entschlössen no longer aufzusehen.

What should be because it actually mean? - Why stared him so to? - So much
had he seen that she was extraordinarily beautiful and precious dressed.
She carried an embroidered and gray silk dress and a hat with large
feathers of the same color. Also glittered everywhere stones at her -
at their hands in their ears, on their chest.

He did not want to look up, not even glance at her face. When he was but
then, how curious, according to the other tables and umsah his
eyes also seem indifferent about their drift left, he saw how they
were looking to the side because her companion with her and she
said to him something had to answer.

Now he could not resist the temptation to look at them, and he saw that it
was still far more beautiful than he thought. He had never been such a
narrow, delicate face seen such delicate skin, which looked like white
powdered, and such peculiarly red, beautifully curved lips, so much
self-confidence and indifference both in the upright posture of the
body ... He could not continue, so strangely beautiful she appeared
to him, and he no longer had them in mind as they are now somewhat
vornüberbeugte to any place in the newspaper to see better, to their
companions they pointed out. As if they feel that he looked, suddenly,
she saw again, and again came to his own view of this large, dark, long,
black lashes shaded eyes, and quietly re-testing, without question, but
with quite undisguised interest rested with him. This was a sharp
redness in his face, and with a hasty movement, which showed only
too clearly how much he had guessed, he turned from.

He was embarrassed and angry. He would prefer fortgegangen if it would
have been possible without the other, the more gaily talking. From now
on he only looked at from time to time, and every time he met the gaze
of these eyes, the ever larger and ever sake seemed to be fixed when he
wanted to say: I recognize you ... A sultry increased anxiety in the
young man up, as he had never felt. He felt that this woman wanted something
from him .-- But what? - Who was she? - Was the gentleman with the gray
hair, her husband - your friend - it was a decent woman, or she
- something else? A decent woman, she was certainly not. A decent
woman saw a strange man not so, but a public even less. The incidentally
would not be admitted into this cafe was. Anyway who she was. It was
he, Francis Fields, and he knew who he was, and he could not see it.
With an almost disdainful-expressive gesture he returned from
the interview and his friends. They spoke loudly and now without
regard to the rest of the cafe from the nearest swimming. Fields had firmly
made, not longer after the neighboring tables look. Liked him but the
gaze, as much as they wanted - he could not prohibit it, but he wanted
to have her show you what he thought of their behavior, but then,
after a while, during which he unsuccessfully tried to talk to the
participate, he heard a noise (a waiter had dropped a spoon), and
took him to the side to see him, and his eyes involuntarily touched
her again as before.

And now he saw that the expression of their immovable trains had
changed: it was him when Höber the chest under the gray silk, as if the
red firmly closed mouth a little open, but so far that the white teeth
durchschimmern left, and as was in this dark, cold eyes, the fire made
a secret desire, which he called ... And now he was no longer uncomfortable,
but suddenly felt weird. Again he looked away and returned to: again, the
expression of this strange, puzzling full face changed and in place
was the impending desire triumphant joy underfoot, which seemed to say:
Aha, now you fear me! He could no longer endure. Already, he wanted
the conversation of his comrades to interrupt and say that he was tired
and wanted to continue when he saw how the old gentleman half rose
questioningly and turned to his companion, the affirmative head bowed.
He remained seated. Now it would come. When he would go beyond any
of her characters received, and to him, he would know what they
wanted from him. But nothing of all happened. Calmly she stood on, was
the precious fur around the shoulders lay, and went hochaufgerichtet and
easy steps, and without it must be passed to him: Fields looked at,
but her glance was indifferent about him away, and just quietly grazed his
chair, the train of her dress, while the strong scent of strange
perfumes out of it. Behind her through the old man, lean and taut, the
type of a haughty, aristocratic roues, with its cold and empty
trains, unapproachable even when they ... fields remained sitting
quite taken aback.

He had certainly expected something - something, he knew not, but
something unusual.

But so: they only stared at him for half an hour with her black eyes,
like a miracle animal, formally established on sucking him and then
she went away and looked out over him as if he air - air - air --
- unconsciously, his vanity was flattered, and now he suddenly felt
in their violated.

They sat for a long time in the cafe, the three, but Fields was still
mißgestimmter than before and almost coarse.

At night, under the hot and heavy pillows, he dreamed of her, from her
slim figure in a gray silk dress, her eyes and threatened the strange
red painted their lips ...

And even after some days he believed the smell to sense the ausgeströmt
it was when they past him in stages, this strong scent of perfume unknown
to him.

Then he had soon the whole nonsensical story "forgotten, because someone
else thought it was to dominate all over - and even ... 3 At this time,
the happiest of his life should have been, was Franz fields are not happy.
Everything he ever in his wildest dreams hardly dared to hope, he had
achieved all the victories who ever erlangbar were him fall, what
none ever received become the highest honor in such early years,
he had them ...

Nevertheless, he was not satisfied.

All he could tolerate, but not this peace after such victories. thirsted
Him for new and greater successes, like the drinkers, whose thirst
for each new Glase increased - he sought something new, unprecedented
...

Major victory, there was not, so it could only be exceptional.

An idea surfaced again in him on which it has often employed, and not let
him go. He was a swimmer, swimmers only. As a swimmer, he was on his best
clubs in Europe beginning to become the master. An excellent diver,
he has been a small guy, and he still occasionally dug below
the water around, by the force of his lungs to try and out of pure lust.
But in the competitions of the plate and pike dive, he had never
participated. They were always considered him somewhat inferior occurred.
Jumping In contrast, he had it on the smooth and nice header with which
he always went into the water, not brought out. Other jumps, he had
probably sooner skillfully and sometimes even tried - but only reluctantly,
and then he added regularly so as all the others that they were not
constantly. Finally, they were totally against his swimming training
resigns over him and into oblivion. He could no longer properly.
Therefore, he had to struggle more in swimming, jumping and diving
from which the show won the largest number of points in all three species
aufweist, never involved and can never remember it, do. But he never
had in the last two years of unprecedented triumphs of a sense of
discontent throughout the presentation, if he had seen, as in the price
distributions, other than he was appointed masters to masters in
Mehrkampf and jumping, and the same, albeit never enjoyed unprecedented
honor as he was.

Especially strong was this feeling - more a feeling of unsatisfying,
not a feeling of envy, because he was not fussy - in recent years has
become, where the spoiled and severe was to share with others. His
ambition was not the idea rested him and always stoked anew: should it
not be possible, even for this area to capture him on the same or similar
triumphs but how to obtain on his own, and at least one Mehrkampf
prices to usurp? - In Diving it would be easy to succeed him, by simple
exercise without much effort for so long under water to hold "as the
others, exercise and a normal lung completely satisfy here. And his
first - But in jumping? - He had his one-sidedness of the other sports
so entirely neglected, for example, never geturnt he was no longer
boy whose muscles still soft and yielding to all the requirements
were, to train - and here came not only stamina and exercise into
consideration, but the specific talents, it just on its territory
to be the only swimmer had made .-- The question was: Could a first
swimmer ever to be a first Springer, and vice versa?

Experience spoke against it.

There were first-class swimmers, who were perfectly good jumper, and
vice versa.

The one or the other, it was usually, therefore, that the first
Mehrkampf prices fetched by the by a skill to replace what they
lacked in the other, and rarely away one of them by bad price diving.

But that in and Fixed the same on a single to the first two competitions
in various areas had participated, it was still almost unprecedented,
and would in any event, with the defeat to secure one of the two
territories ended.

Therefore, prices here and there, and the club enjoyed the highest honor,
which it had succeeded, not only the first swimmer, but also the first
Springer manhood. So did the S.-CB 1879 alongside the fields to a
master swimmer unsurpassable Springer Grafenberger. Fields knew all
this very well. But he came by his ideas no longer go. It took
nothing.

He endured it no longer, in addition to other as equal celebrated masters
like to see - again, once he had the high savor feeling quite
alone, quite alone in the jubilation of the day to move there -: no
addition, all behind them ... At least he had to try and see if it
failed to enforce what he planned. With the old, tough resolve to the
whole doggedness in his new goal, he went again to work. He wanted nothing
stated in advance. Once, not because he wanted to be ridiculed if the
case failed, but then, because he very well knew that with its
unprecedented success everywhere he Neider were formed, which is
sure to spiteful remarks can not be missed if they saw how He is
still not satisfied, further and further under the hands stretched
out the laurels of others ...

Indeed, it was quite impossible that he was under the very eyes
suddenly jumping tried. He could no longer appear in the bath without
having him at every step and every accorded his movements pursued. When
swimming it bothered him, and he had long been whispered quietly to the
words and the curious glances accustomed. But in what he now planned,
there would have been any attempt from the frustrated. He had to find
a place in which he freely exercises his new reflection and so far has
trained to deal with some security against his club in the evenings hintreten
Exercise them. That was not even hard. Berlin, so low in winter swimming
pools, had his next most visited Volksbadeanstalten and one or two large
private halls in one or other of the district have one or two pools,
unusable for swimming because of their smallness, known only by a few
guests and old master held their owners as the infertile only attached to
their establishments because they were once there. Such a bath stood in
the far south of the city, across the hall's gate - leave from all over
the world and as a swimming pool has long been forgotten and barely
mentioned.

Whether it still existed, did not even field, here a few years ago
once was to the small event of any long-received club attend.

That was what fields needed, and one evening he was on a secret mission
to guide the south of the city. He found a dark, deep hole, filled with a
black, cold liquid, totally unsuitable for swimming, because it fields
one of its clashes in the length and a half in width durchmaß, but of
sufficient depth, even for the straight jumps, and received fairly
trampolines in two different heights. Once a week, practiced here in a
school swimming club, the sporting circles in no contact was otherwise
bathed only very early in the morning and evening after work a couple of
swimmers here daily, it "could not leave," as the lifeguards felt
sleepy, of the fields do not even know by name.
"Perhaps she's told him on the instalment plan.
She may have begun by confessing that Burnamy had been in Carlsbad. Poor
old fellow, I wish we were going to find him in Ansbach! He could make
things very smooth for us."

"Well, you needn't flatter yourself that you'll find him in Ansbach. I'm
sure I don't know where he is."

"You might write to Miss Triscoe and ask."

"I think I shall wait for Miss Triscoe to write to me," she said, with
dignity.

"Yes, she certainly owes you that much, after all your suffering for her.
I've asked the banker in Nuremberg to forward our letters to the poste
restante in Ansbach. Isn't it good to see the crows again, after those
ravens around Carlsbad?"

She joined him in looking at the mild autumnal landscape through the open
window. The afternoon was fair and warm, and in the level fields bodies
of soldiers were at work with picks and spades, getting the ground ready
for the military manoeuvres; they disturbed among the stubble foraging
parties of crows, which rose from time to time with cries of indignant
protest. She said, with a smile for the crows, "Yes. Zweyte Scene.
(Antipholis of Syracuse, a Kauffmann and Dromio occur.) Kauffmann. If
you do not want that your money once again lost sey, then give out
their Seyde of Epidamnum.

Only this morning is a nemlichen Syracuse Kauffmann has been here, and
because he was not in a position, his life loszukauffen, it must be under
our Gesez before sinking suns die.

Here is your money that you had deposited me Bey. Antipholis. Go,
Dromio, set it in the Centaur, where we have made our neighborhood,
waiting there until I come in an hour, there will be lunch-time
Seyn. However, I want the city to look at, with the acquaintance Kauffleuten
make the buildings look, and then into my house Wirth zurükkommen and
sleep, for I am quite lengthy journeys stiff and tired.

Go your way. Dromio. Some people would take you Beyme words, and with
such a charming way of his travel money go. (Dromio goes anyway.)
Antipholis. He is an honest scoundrel, sir, of me, when I depressed and
melancholic am with his clownish ideas often make up again.

How ists, will you not with me around in the city go, and afterwards in
my hotel with me for lunch? Kauffmann.

My Lord, I am too many other Kauffleuten ordered, of which I make
a handsome profit to hope, you will So keep me entschuldiget.

Once it has beaten five, I want you, if there is any on the market
again for you, and you are going to sleep time society.

Ruffer Dißmal my business from you up. Antipholis. Lebet bisdahin probably
I will go around alone, however, and the city IS. Kauffmann.

My Lord, I release 'euerm lend you pleasure.

(The Kauffmann geht ab.) Third Scene. Antipholis .

Who I am my own pleasure leaves, leaves me one thing that I find nowhere
kan.
He hesitated to take it, but he asked at last with
a mildness that seemed to surprise her, "Have you heard anything from him
since?"

"No."

"Where is he?"

"I don't know. I told him I could not say what he wished; that I must
tell you about it."

The case was less simple than it would once have been for General
Triscoe. There was still his affection for his daughter, his wish for her
happiness, but this had always been subordinate to his sense of his own
interest and comfort, and a question had recently arisen which put his
paternal love and duty in a new light. He was no more explicit with
himself than other men are, and the most which could ever be said of him
without injustice was that in his dependence upon her he would rather
have kept his daughter to himself if she could not have been very
prosperously married. On the other hand, if he disliked the man for whom
she now hardly hid her liking, he was not just then ready to go to
extremes concerning him.

"He was very anxious," she went on, "that you should know just how it
was. Haide At home they are reflected in the windows, and the Sense
of the father, went to mow the lawn. III. Haide the village. The first
night, it was barren and deserted, and the two parents that hurt the
heart, as set out in the twilight of the summer went to bed, and at his
empty bed saw.

To the same people, perhaps just now Heerstraße immigrated to drought,
and have no respect, even by the most despised was broke nearly
two naturrohe heart Haide home in the remote, that it from now on,
perhaps for ever be deprived, but they expressed the pain in itself,
and each one carried him lonely, because there are too modestly,
and was awkward to express itself.

But it was a second day, and a third and a fourth, each the same
glittering sky stretched over the arch Haide, and sparkled down the
window and the roof of the old gray house just so friendly and
sweet, like when he was still been present.

And then came back days and again.

The work and joy of the country's through millennia uniform, and even
millennia unerschöpft moved also silent and magical a piece of
their ancestral chain through the hut, and at each of its members
hung a Tröpflein oblivion.

The grandmother was still their wooden stool on the lawn, and prayed
on it and they are small and Marthe asked every day, because when
Felix brings.

The father mähete rye and barley - the mother made cheese and tied
sheaves - and the foreign Ziegenbube drove daily to Haide. Felix knew
nothing. The sun was up, and went under the Haide was white, and was
green, the Hollunderbaum and Apfelbaum blüheten many times - small
Marthe was grown, and walked to hay [66] and to harvest, but they
asked no more - and the grandmother, eternal and incomprehensible
out alive, like a forgotten man from death, and asked no more,
because he represents her, or to talk about their secret fantasy
characters had been introduced.

The fields Haide the Bauers improved after just as if the heavens bless
his loneliness and he wanted to retaliate, and it was so good to him,
[67] that he has some grain sack, recharge, and with beautiful oxen could
continue what he Thaler some money, and news of the outside world
brought home.

One was also a journeyman carpenter with his hiking packs [68] to
father Niklas, Haide the farmer, and brought greetings and a letter
from Felix, and said that the same in the large, far-flung capital
pretty, diligent student is that it all love, and that he did Kaplan
one day in the great cathedral could be.

The journeyman carpenter in the night was over Haide well kept home, and
let vain joy [69], when he the other day in the opposite direction
moved away. [70] So it was that every year once or twice a migrant
husband to go through the Haide made the beautiful, kind, handmade
single youths to love, like a greeting to his dear mother wanted
to send.

Yes einesmals even came to a stage, and conterfeite the cottage
sammt the well and lilac and apple tree.

There are other changes began at the Haide. There were once many men and
Haide measured a piece of land, which since time immemorial no
property had been Lord, and there was an old peasant man, and sons
zimmerte with many people and a house on it, and began to reclaim
the measured spot to make.

"Hm!" The general waited a moment. Then he ventured, "Do you care to
say--do you wish me to know--how he took it?"

The tears came into the girl's eyes, but she governed herself to say,
"He--he was disappointed."

"He had no right to be disappointed."

It was a question, and she answered: "He thought he had. He said--that he
wouldn't--trouble me any more."

The general did not ask at once, "And you don't know where he is now--you
haven't heard anything from him since?"

Agatha flashed through her tears, "Papa!"

"Oh! I beg your pardon. I think you told me."




PG EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

    Americans are hungrier for royalty than anybody else
    Effort to get on common ground with an inferior
    He buys my poverty and not my will
    Honest selfishness
    Intrepid fancy that they had confronted fate
    Less intrusive than if he had not been there
    Monologue to which the wives of absent-minded men resign
    Only one of them was to be desperate at a time
    Reconciliation with death which nature brings to life at last
    Voting-cattle whom they bought and sold
    We don't seem so much our own property
    We get too much into the hands of other people