The mysterious pronoun somehow increased Paul's sense of isolation, and
he went on to the drawing-rooms, steering his way prudently between the
gold arm-chairs and shining tables, and wondering whether the wigged and
corseleted heroes on the walls represented Mr. Many attempts have been
made find this steamer because she was laden sum on board, the two
together amounting to about$ 140,000 Moffatt. All attempts had
unsuccessful until them the Smith was with, a cargo of copper
ingots, and had besides a, however, of money been large utilize.It was too early for the florist, and the centre of the table was
empty, but down the sides were gold baskets heaped with pulpy summer
fruits-figs, strawberries and big blushing nectarines. Between them
stood crystal decanters with red and yellow wine, and little dishes full
of sweets; and against the walls were sideboards with great pieces
of gold and silver, ewers and urns and branching candelabra, which
sprinkled the green marble walls with starlike reflections.

After a while he grew tired of watching the coming and going of
white-sleeved footmen, and of listening to the butler's vociferated
orders, and strayed back into the library. The habit of solitude had
given him a passion for the printed page, and if he could have found
a book anywhere--any kind of a book--he would have forgotten the long
hours and the empty house. But the tables in the library held only
massive unused inkstands and immense immaculate blotters; not a single
volume had slipped its golden prison.

His loneliness had grown overwhelming, and he suddenly thought of Mrs.
Heeny's clippings. His mother, alarmed by an insidious gain in weight,
had brought the masseuse back from New York with her, and Mrs. Heeny,
with her old black bag and waterproof, was established in one of the
grand bedrooms lined with mirrors. She had been loud in her joy at
seeing her little friend that morning, but four years had passed since
their last parting, and her personality had grown remote to him. He saw
too many people, and they too often disappeared and were replaced by
others: his scattered affections had ended by concentrating themselves
on the charming image of the gentleman he called his French father; and
since his French father had vanished no one else seemed to matter much
to him.

"Oh, well," Mrs. Heeny had said, discerning the reluctance under his
civil greeting, "I guess you're as strange here as I am, and we're both
pretty strange to each other. You just go and look round, and see what
a lovely home your Ma's got to live in; and when you get tired of that,
come up here to me and I'll give you a look at my clippings."

The word woke a train of dormant associations, and Paul saw himself
seated on a dingy carpet, between two familiar taciturn old presences,
while he rummaged in the depths of a bag stuffed with strips of
newspaper.

He found Mrs. Heeny sitting in a pink arm-chair, her bonnet perched on a
pink-shaded electric lamp and her numerous implements spread out on an
immense pink toilet-table. Vague as his recollection of her was, she
gave him at once a sense of reassurance that nothing else in the house
conveyed, and after he had examined all her scissors and pastes and
nail-polishers he turned to the bag, which stood on the carpet at her
feet as if she were waiting for a train.

"My, my!" she said, "do you want to get into that again? How you used to
hunt in it for taffy, to be sure, when your Pa brought you up to Grandma
Spragg's o' Saturdays! Well, I'm afraid there ain't any taffy in it now;
but there's piles and piles of lovely new clippings you ain't seen."

"My Papa?" He paused, his hand among the strips of newspaper. "My Papa
never saw my Grandma Spragg. He never went to America."

"Never went to America? Your Pa never--? Why, land alive!" Mrs. Heeny
gasped, a blush empurpling her large warm face. "Why, Paul Marvell,
don't you remember your own father, you that bear his name?" she
exclaimed.

The boy blushed also, conscious that it must have been wrong to forget,
and yet not seeing how he was to blame.

"That one died a long long time ago, didn't he? I was thinking of my
French father," he explained.

"Oh, mercy," ejaculated Mrs. Heeny; and as if to cut the conversation
short she stooped over, creaking like a ship, and thrust her plump
strong hand into the bag.

"Here, now, just you look at these clippings--I guess you'll find a lot
in them about your Ma.--Where do they come from? Why, out of the papers,
of course," she added, in response to Paul's enquiry. "You'd oughter
start a scrap-book yourself--you're plenty old enough. You could make
a beauty just about your Ma, with her picture pasted in the front--and
another about Mr. Moffatt and his collections. There's one I cut out the
other day that says he's the greatest collector in America."

Paul listened, fascinated. This contrivance is a small and handy
block for holding the pencil in position for the knife, and has a cutting
guide which will be a joy to people who are awkward in using the
knife.
COLORED PHOTOGRAPHY.--The State Department has received a specimen
from Paris of Mr.His mother's marriages, for instance: he was
sure there was a great deal to find out about them. But she always said:
"I'll tell you all about it when I come back"--and when she came back
it was invariably to rush off somewhere else. So he had remained without
a key to her transitions, and had had to take for granted numberless
things that seemed to have no parallel in the experience of the other
boys he knew.

"Here--here it is," said Mrs. Heeny, adjusting the big tortoiseshell
spectacles she had taken to wearing, and reading out in a slow chant
that seemed to Paul to come out of some lost remoteness of his infancy.

"'It is reported in London that the price paid by Mr. Elmer Moffatt for
the celebrated Grey Boy is the largest sum ever given for a Vandyck.
Since Mr. Moffatt began to buy extensively it is estimated in art
circles that values have gone up at least seventy-five per cent.'"

But the price of the Grey Boy did not interest Paul, and he said a
little impatiently: "I'd rather hear about my mother."

"To be sure you would! You wait now." Mrs. Heeny made another dive, and
again began to spread her clippings on her lap like cards on a big black
table.

"Here's one about her last portrait--no, here's a better one about
her pearl necklace, the one Mr. Moffatt gave her last Christmas. 'The
necklace, which was formerly the property of an Austrian Archduchess, is
composed of five hundred perfectly matched pearls that took thirty years
to collect. It is estimated among dealers in precious stones that since
Mr. Moffatt began to buy the price of pearls has gone up over fifty per
cent.'"

Even this did not fix Paul's attention. He wanted to hear about his
mother and Mr. Moffatt, and not about their things; and he didn't quite
know how to frame his question. But Mrs. Heeny looked kindly at him and
he tried. "Why is mother married to Mr. Moffatt now?"

"Why, you must know that much, Paul." Mrs. Heeny again looked warm and
worried. "She's married to him because she got a divorce--that's why."
And suddenly she had another inspiration. "Didn't she ever send you
over any of those splendid clippings that came out the time they were
married? Why, I declare, that's a shame; but I must have some of 'em
right here."

She dived again, shuffled, sorted, and pulled out a long discoloured
strip. "I've carried this round with me ever since, and so many's wanted
to read it, it's all torn." With the aid of these arms the pincers, and made to grip huge machine
can move from place to spot like a great spider.

The arms also be drawn together like objects and interior up to the
surface. The of the bell is lighted carry them by electricity.
The Marquise de Chelles, of Paris, France, formerly Mrs. Undine Spragg
Marvell, of Apex City and New York, got a decree of divorce at a special
session of the Court last night, and was remarried fifteen minutes
later to Mr. Elmer Moffatt, the billionaire Railroad King, who was the
Marquise's first husband.

"'No case has ever been railroaded through the divorce courts of this
State at a higher rate of speed: as Mr. Moffatt said last night, before
he and his bride jumped onto their east-bound special, every record has
been broken. It was just six months ago yesterday that the present Mrs.
Moffatt came to Reno to look for her divorce. Owing to a delayed train,
her counsel was late yesterday in receiving some necessary papers, and
it was feared the decision would have to be held over; but Judge Toomey,
who is a personal friend of Mr. Moffatt's, held a night session and
rushed it through so that the happy couple could have the knot tied and
board their special in time for Mrs. Moffatt to spend Thanksgiving in
New York with her aged parents. The hearing began at seven ten p. m. and
at eight o'clock the bridal couple were steaming out of the station.

"'At the trial Mrs. Spragg-de Chelles, who wore copper velvet and
sables, gave evidence as to the brutality of her French husband, but she
had to talk fast as time pressed, and Judge Toomey wrote the entry at
top speed, and then jumped into a motor with the happy couple and
drove to the Justice of the Peace, where he acted as best man to the
bridegroom. The latter is said to be one of the six wealthiest men east
of the Rockies. His gifts to the bride are a necklace and tiara of
pigeon-blood rubies belonging to Queen Marie Antoinette, a million
dollar cheque and a house in New York. The happy pair will pass the
honeymoon in Mrs. Moffatt's new home, 5009 Fifth Avenue, which is an
exact copy of the Pitti Palace, Florence. They plan to spend their
springs in France.'"

Mrs. Heeny drew a long breath, folded the paper and took off her
spectacles. "There," she said, with a benignant smile and a tap on
Paul's cheek, "now you see how it all happened...."

Paul was not sure he did; but he made no answer. His mind was too full
of troubled thoughts. In the dazzling description of his mother's latest
nuptials one fact alone stood out for him--that she had said things that
weren't true of his French father. Something he had half-guessed in her,
and averted his frightened thoughts from, took his little heart in an
iron grasp. She said things that weren't true.... That was what he had
always feared to find out.... She had got up and said before a lot of
people things that were awfully false about his dear French father....

The sound of a motor turning in at the gates made Mrs. Heeny exclaim
"Here they are!" and a moment later Paul heard his mother calling to
him. He got up reluctantly, and stood wavering till he felt Mrs. Heeny's
astonished eye upon him. Then he heard Mr. Moffatt's jovial shout of
"Paul Marvell, ahoy there!" and roused himself to run downstairs.

As he reached the landing he saw that the ballroom doors were open and
all the lustres lit. His mother and Mr. Moffatt stood in the middle of
the shining floor, looking up at the walls; and Paul's heart gave
a wondering bound, for there, set in great gilt panels, were the
tapestries that had always hung in the gallery at Saint Desert.

"Well, Senator, it feels good to shake your fist again!" his step-father
said, taking him in a friendly grasp; and his mother, who looked
handsomer and taller and more splendidly dressed than ever, exclaimed:
"Mercy! how they've cut his hair!" before she bent to kiss him.

"Oh, mother, mother!" he burst out, feeling, between his mother's face
and the others, hardly less familiar, on the walls, that he was really
at home again, and not in a strange house.

"Gracious, how you squeeze!" she protested, loosening his arms. "But you
look splendidly--and how you've grown!" Nansen; that is to say, he
will establish little colonies of Eskimos at certain distances along
his route, leaving supplies with each colony, which he can fall
back on in case of need.

He intends to keep up a constant communication with these settlements
by means of dogs and sledges, so that he will not be entirely cut off
from the world as previous explorers have been.

Lieutenant Peary has obtained five years' leave of absence from the
Navy Department. He will therefore have plenty of time for his
experiment.They both smiled, and Paul, seeing his mother's softened face, stole his
hand in hers and began: "Mother, I took a prize in composition--"

"Did you? You must tell me about it to-morrow. No, I really must rush
off now and dress--I haven't even placed the dinner-cards." She freed
her hand, and as she turned to go Paul heard Mr. Moffatt say: "Can't you
ever give him a minute's time, Undine?"

She made no answer, but sailed through the door with her head high, as
she did when anything annoyed her; and Paul and his step-father stood
alone in the illuminated ball-room.

Mr. Moffatt smiled good-naturedly at the little boy and then turned back
to the contemplation of the hangings.

"I guess you know where those come from, don't you?" he asked in a tone
of satisfaction.

"Oh, yes," Paul answered eagerly, with a hope he dared not utter that,
since the tapestries were there, his French father might be coming too.

"You're a smart boy to remember them. I don't suppose you ever thought
you'd see them here?"

"I don't know," said Paul, embarrassed.

"Well, I guess you wouldn't have if their owner hadn't been in a pretty
tight place. It was like drawing teeth for him to let them go."

Paul flushed up, and again the iron grasp was on his heart. He hadn't,
hitherto, actually disliked Mr. Moffatt, who was always in a good
humour, and seemed less busy and absent-minded than his mother; but at
that instant he felt a rage of hate for him. He turned away and burst
into tears.

"Why, hullo, old chap--why, what's up?" Mr. Moffatt was on his knees
beside the boy, and the arms embracing him were firm and friendly. But
Paul, for the life of him, couldn't answer: he could only sob and sob as
the great surges of loneliness broke over him.

"Is it because your mother hadn't time for you? Well, she's like that,
you know; and you and I have got to lump it," Mr. Moffatt continued,
getting to his feet. He stood looking down at the boy with a queer
smile. "If we two chaps stick together it won't be so bad--we can keep
each other warm, don't you see? I like you first rate, you know; when
you're big enough I mean to put you in my business. And it looks as if
one of these days you'd be the richest boy in America...."

The lamps were lit, the vases full of flowers, the foot-men assembled
on the landing and in the vestibule below, when Undine descended to the
drawing-room. As she passed the ballroom door she glanced in approvingly
at the tapestries. They really looked better than she had been willing
to admit: they made her ballroom the handsomest in Paris. But something
had put her out on the way up from Deauville, and the simplest way of
easing her nerves had been to affect indifference to the tapestries. Now
she had quite recovered her good humour, and as she glanced down the
list of guests she was awaiting she said to herself, with a sigh of
satisfaction, that she was glad she had put on her rubies.

