"I don't know what the Red Lion is like nowadays," he said to his
daughter. "In the days of my youth it was notoriously dirty and full
of fleas, and I trust it has not changed. The air is cleaner now, my
duck. This Hamon is a very nasty fellow."

And she was inclined to agree. She had not seen Jim since the meeting
on the hill, and she purposely avoided contact with him. What would he
think of her? How was he feeling? Was he hurt? She hoped most
fervently that he was.

"Do you like Americans, Father?"

"I like some of them, and I detest some of them," said his lordship,
without raising his eyes from the newspaper he was reading; "but that
remark equally applies to almost any nation. Why?" He looked over the
top of the paper. "You're thinking of Morlake?" he said.

"I was," she confessed.

"A very nice fellow. I never knew that a desperado could be so nice.
He is a gentleman, too," he added, and returned to his newspaper.


CHAPTER XXXVII

_The Letter_


The people of Creith wondered to see their lord's principal guest,
and, if rumour did not lie, the future owner of the estate, moving
his lodgings to the village inn; but Hamon had got to the point where
he did not care what they thought. A week ago, such an affront to his
dignity would have driven him desperate; but now something else was at
stake. Unexpectedly his world was rocking dangerously.

He wired Lydia to meet him in London on the morrow, and, waiting until
it was dark, he went out from his lodgings and bent his steps to the
gardener's cottage. Mrs. Cornford opened the door to him, and at first
she did not recognise him in the darkness.

"I want to see you, Mrs. Cornford," he said.

"Who is it?" she asked.

"Ralph Hamon."

She did not move, standing squarely in the narrow passage, and then,
opening the door wider:

"Come in," she said, and followed him into the little parlour.

"You haven't changed very much, Mrs. Cornford," he said, at a loss how
to approach the subject which had brought him there.

She made no reply. It was an awkward situation, and again he sought
for an opening.

"I suppose you're still feeling sore with me?"

"No," she replied quietly, and then: "Won't you sit down, Mr. Hamon?"

"There is no reason why you should feel sore. I did everything I could
for Johnny."

"Where is he?" she asked.

"I don't know--dead, I suppose," he said, and at the brutality of his
words she winced a little.

"I think he is dead too," she breathed, nodding slowly. "You were
equally sure that he was alive twelve years ago," she said quietly.
"What happened to his money, Mr. Hamon?"

"He lost it: I told you that before," said Hamon impatiently.

Her eyes never left him.

"He wrote to me from Morocco, saying that he had seen the mine, and
how splendid a property it was, and then a month later he wrote from
London, saying that he was fixing everything with you, and I never
heard from him again."

"He disappeared: that is all I know," said Hamon. "He was coming to my
office to complete the purchase of shares, and he didn't turn up. I
wired you, asking where he was, immediately."

His tone was a defiance.

"I only know that he drew a hundred thousand pounds from the bank,
and that neither he nor the money was seen again," she said steadily.
"I am not pretending, Mr. Hamon, that my husband and I were very
happy. He was of too erratic a disposition, had too many friends of
both sexes that I could not possibly approve; he was a drunkard too,
but he was in some respects a good man. He would not have left me a
beggar as he did."

He shrugged his shoulders.

"Why didn't you go to the police?" he asked blandly. "If you had any
doubts about me----"

She looked down upon him, a contemptuous smile upon her tired face.

"You begged me not to go to the police," she said in a low voice. "I
see now what a fool I was. You begged me, for my own sake and for the
sake of my husband's people, not to advertise his absence."

It is not know how to live and enjoy in the heart of this diverse and
beautiful universe. Is contrary to creating a mystical love. My soul
reconcentra mysticism: Spread the love. Off the spirit of nature,
what can we expect but what I see and I regret it now?

Or the delusion that nothing takes the principle of being, or wickedness,
the rebates, impure brutal rudeness and material pleasures of
appetite, triumphant in nature, in society and in every thought,
when the spirit leaves. Instead, what the true spirit that departs
from the real world, to believe and worship the divine worship it
himself?

Or to resist the blows of misfortune more vulgar retains enough
verve. What energy will I have? I can only vile and cowardly resignation
or die of grief here, as mujercilla nervous. What a shame! I can
not more. Woe is me! (Proclama falls unconscious in the chair-long.)
.-- ASCLEPIGENIA! Atenais! ¡Atenais! ¡Go! Oh, alas! Go, bring a bottle
of essences.

We ran out of philosophy!

Philosophy is no longer possible. Since there are only positive
and prosaic science. I killed my philosopher. (He leans over and hugs
him as tenderly.) Smells bad, but ...

It's so wise!

It's so good! SCENE XII. SUCH, ATESTAIS. (Atenais helps to care for
Asclepigenia proclama, using a bottle of essences to their noses)
ATENAIS .-- Relax. It's nothing. And returns itself. ASCLEPIGENIA .--
Good scare me I have! Poor me! My soul! What is bad put me!
Proclamations. (Gets up.) - Forgive me, friend.

It was a moment of weakness. (Repairing in Atenais.)

Who's this gallant girl? ASCLEPIGENIA .-- It Atenais daughter Leoncio.
Proclama .-- The daughter of my learned and illustrious friend ...

The sky bless you, Atenais! ASCLEPIGENIA .-- Do you forgive me, proclama?
Proclama .-- No more talk of the past: olvidémoslo. ASCLEPIGENIA .--
Live with me? Proclama .-- I do not want or can no longer live ti.
You'll be the bright light that illuminates with its gentle
melancholy the evening of my existence.

These white and soft hands (those making between their own) love with
my eyes closed when you sleep together for the last sleep. ASCLEPIGENIA
miss .-- Contigo no less nor wealth, nor bodily beauty ...

What more beautiful, more wealth than the treasures of your soul?

If necessary, we will live in the greater stringency.

I spoil something for cooking and hands remendarte of clothing. The
elegance, refinement, the fragrance of aristocratic distinction
will fade away almost completely when we live miserably.

But what matter? Do I possess your soul and you mine?

Proclama .-- It must be so. Not consent to be lost or deteriorate,
or a spark, or an atom of all that you gave Belda nature and art
has been completed and enhanced.

I shall win wealth for you. For you will have thriving youth and
physical beauty.

     ASCLEPIGENIA .-- No hallucinations, proclamations. The youth who
     was never returns. Venus Urania do not visit without reason. As
     for wealth, I am certainly not a mite never win with all your
     philosophy, unless appealed to the miracle. Proclama .--
     Well, I appeal to the miracle. Now you'll see who I am. Here I
     love you, oh Teurgia!

Something for me to serve you. Until now, Asclepigenia idolater,
has possessed in Eumorfo and Crematurgo beauty, youth and wealth, quotas,
limited and obsolete. From now on you'll have youth, beauty and
wealth, absolutely and forever. Religious silence. And the spell
begins. (Deep silence. Proclama, waving his staff, it draws air
in circles and other magical figures and words unintelligible whispers
between teeth. Hear music, slow and submissive. At the heart of the
theater is a brilliant renneting candida and cloud with Arreboles
carmine, gold and pearl.)

ASCLEPIGENIA And ATENAIS .-- What a wonder! proclama .-- hidden in
this cloud is already at your command and your service, replacing
Eumorfo and Crematurgo of at flechero Apollo, the most elegant and
beautiful of the gods, and the son of Jasione and Ceres, Pluto the
blind, dispenser of wealth.

Want to get away with bands of muses, thanks nymphs and heroes,
or leave alone?

ASCLEPIGENIA .-- leaving alone. Ya les iré calling the appropriate time,
all that is happening. Proclama .-- ¡appears gods (opens the cloud,
and leaving it with plenty of light Bengal, Pluto, lame, blind and
winged and Apollo, bizarre and very graceful, with purple robe,
lyre and laurel wreath in hand.) proclamations .-- What more you
ask for?

ASCLEPIGENIA .-- None. I am happy with your love.

Proclama .-- reconsider, however, if you need something. ASCLEPIGENIA
.-- If I am not labeled for pedigüeña-over and demanding, yet you ask
for one thing. Proclama .-- What? ASCLEPIGENIA. - That you wash.
proclama .-- I wash. ATENAIS .-- Already blessed. Have science, beauty,
youth, wealth and even toiletries.

I, helpless and needy, rather than envidiarte me joy. Proclamations
.-- Heaven reward you, generous Atenais. Yo, now I'm inspired, I
read in the future egregia your destination. The younger Theodosius,
who educates her sister Pulqueria well, so that it glows in the
imperial throne, will marry you. Empress of the East will be
well.'ll Be happy and powerful without resorting to magic, but you have
to make a Christian. Finally, for our glory and our happiness are
more wonderful and vividoras after passing truck or fourteen centuries,
counting from the date appear on the smiling and fertile Andalusia,
home of the reigning dynasty and home of your grandfather political
Theodosius the Great and countless other people Eminence, a witty
writer and truthfulness, which is to write about the events of that
night in a dialogue, which try to compete with the divine Plato in
high and severe, and the satirical Luciano as funny and cheerful. ATENAIS
I .-- I am Holger if your predictions are fulfilled. ASCLEPIGENIA
.-- And me too.

I fear however that such a dialogue, which proclama announces, is an
amenity without extravagance and without liveliness, where our
figures, not as actual beings, but as allegorical characters:
proclama and where I represent the old corrupt and sensual poetry
and the ancient ie exhausted, desperate and futile, to continue
living together that are delivered to witchcraft and superstitions.

ATENAIS .-- If the allegory may have some application where the
dialogue is written, you might be interested in dialogue.

ASCLEPIGENIA .-- Whatever happens , it should not matter much.

There has been the author.

We five, gods and mortals, let's go to triclinium, where I have prepared
a succulent and well-seasoned supper.

GODS AND DEADLY .-- Come to dinner. GOPA philosophical dialogue in
three tables. TABLE I. The scene is in the city of Capilavastu: 593
years before Christ. Interior of the magnificent palace of Prince
Siddhartha. It is night. House of the thalamus, illuminated by a lamp
of gold. GOPA .-- PRATYAPATI. PRATYAPATI more vigilant .-- The king's
servants Sudonán hover around this palace.

The city gates are defended. Will not leave. We must not go. Without
it what will become of us? With equal vehemence love him, though
in different ways.

I love him as if he were my son. When, shortly after giving
life, died BU mother Maya Devi, was at their Siddhartha to my care. The
gods did not want her to live, not to suffer what we suffer today.

GOPA .-- immense pain haunts us. Why blight her beautiful face irreparable
sadness? Why do you want to leave? What's missing, what is waning in
me? I would have preferred him to the gods, such as Nal Damayanti
preferred. My fortune is estimated at humbly obey him and be all
yours. ¡Ungrateful!

Your heart can not calm insatiable in my love. His noble head
never rests quiet on my breast. No longer loves me. Judge me unworthy
of your affection. PRATYAPATI .-- Do not harass, Gopa oh! Siddhartha
loves you. For him, you be the favorite among all beings. But love
is born of his sentence. Love is his martyrdom. Love devours him,
creating a soul in his infinite mercy, no consents or delight, or
enjoyment, or just peace.

All the ills of life weigh on your heart, covering her affection in the
lives of the three worlds.

Love, first of nature, by a fatal expanding its divine essence, be
given to what lived and were born with the life the pain, poverty,
disease and death. It seems that Siddhartha is the embodiment, the
avatar of love, mourning and regret having created life, suffering
itself to be far everything has life suffers and yearns back to
life no end to the suffering.

GOPA .-- Ephemeral life is the condition that it should also be born.
PRATYAPATI .-- No, Gopa; life has no end. Death is not, however, end.
Carried in the current life, so moved, but not of essence, which is
reborn or if the pain recurs. In this sense, the gods, the Asura and
men are equally immortal. GOPA .-- Is there no happy? PRATYAPATI .--
None. Unhappiness is the first condition of life.

GOPA .-- Why Love created life, and unhappiness with her? PRATYAPATI
.-- Because Love was not free. As the rays of the sun flowing like
water flowing from the source of love and broke and living hand. Just
moved from sublime compassion, by an effort exceeding the human
and the divine, collecting themselves with portentous abstraction,
will also love to collect them and give life eternal stillness.

GOPA .-- I think that as Siddhartha.

Applauded, no doubt, its purpose, which I do not understand.

PRATYAPATI .-- To some extent I think like him, but its purpose
is bold, it seems to me impractical and unrealistic not bold and
welcome.

If he was called as cree to be the liberator of men, I would be happy
and make those sacrifices must be done to achieve it.

Pratyapati GOPA .-- Oh! How are our feelings found! If you love him
as a mother, I, as a wife, a woman in love I love him.

This kind of love is less strong, so common, that the love of mother.
The love of mother is much that is born of the bowels and that is
rooted there.

Therefore, not only women but the same fierce love their gut.

Women love a man, if only he loves with the love of the bowels, not
loves you more than your mother loves you, but when you love with
the spirit of love, loves you a thousand thousand times more than
the mother loving; idolizes him, watching him as a god, have faith
in him, believe him capable of everything great and everything nice,
think of the will of him that it is law to have the miracle of
birth, goodness and blessing to all.

I do not know, I do not understand the purpose of Siddhartha, but
I know it will be good and I understand its purpose, and to succeed,
if you wish.

If you reach for me I have to make the biggest sacrifice, I am ready
to do.

PRATYAPATI .-- Oh hapless and weak woman!

What miserable resignation is yours? You alone can stop the Prince
with the delights chain your affection, but the veneration that
Prince excites you inspires you to break that chain.

Violence will not be enough to retain, but if your white and soft
arms captivate you, how you depart from it to go where he dreams
that his vocation is calling you?

King puts his hope in thee. Do not disappoint. Siddhartha retain the
spell of your love and your beauty. Do not let him since .... Sorry
steps. Siddhartha comes. I do not want me staying here. Animo, O Gopa!
(Will Pratyapati.) Animo GOPA .-- ....

I do not need to stop not need you.

Since I need to let all of my courage. (Enter the Prince.)
Siddhartha (embracing Gopa) - my wife! GOPA .-- Tell me the truth.
Do you love me yet?

Siddhartha .-- I love you more than ever. GOPA .-- Why, then, you're
restless, sad and desperate? Why not calms me in your will?
Siddhartha .-- Failure love you, I will not aquietaría you, seek the
highest order because of his love. Amandote, calms are not
either, because they feared missing. Soon we will separate the
destination, and rebirth in new forms so as not to find anything
ever again. And we are not separated in the fullness of beauty and
strength, still young and robust, but perhaps withered by old age
and disease overworked and dislikes.

This will affect us today we will barter and horror diversion, or gives
rise to a painful pity. But while you and I oh daughter Dandapani!
clad youth succeed and enjoy life everlasting health, love and live
together forever, never be happy as we were not selfish.

Regarding the pain of breathing, encourages respect for the suffering,
death and the lives of all the dreadful spectacle of human misery
acibararían our fortune, or make us unworthy of gozarla by the hardness
of our hearts with compassion and dry your eyes without tears.
GOPA .-- Your reasons are so powerful for me, I do not know how
to respond to them.

If any contain deception, I will not remove you from the deception,
falling into you. It's true: I know from personal experience:
there is no such accomplished. Or when you violate the sweet modesty
of your condition and lending at the whim of my father, this is
competing with my suitors, and the fight in the career, shooting
arrows and wielding other weapons, the defeated, nor When I revealed
that I loved, not when all I was yours, or when I felt alive in my
bosom shaken your image, or when our son was weaned on the milk
from my breasts, nor when, sitting in my lap, clearly descended
from that Gotama first responded to my smile with his smile and
able to pronounce your name and mine never stopped acibarar happy
my fear of losing the property to him and caused the consideration
that we were well pleased, and our privilege hateful, were contrary
to the law that sentenced the men to general misfortune.

But tell me, if you love me, our greatest misfortune is not separated?

Why, then, I run? They claim that we all want to leave. What to wear?
Because the pain is generally necessary, we grow by our willingness,
as it will increase if we leave?

Siddhartha know .-- Well, Iksvacú beautiful granddaughter that I
will not ever have a single tear shed.

How had I willingly give you grief smaller?

I myself never deviate from your hand, if I was legal, but I ocultártelo
no longer: an imperative duty impels me to go away from you.

GOPA .-- Do not you rock, do not stray that duty?

Siddhartha. - It is not possible for me hallucinations. My resolution
has not been sudden, but born of long and deep meditation. I want
and I can liberate the people from the misery, pain and all the
evils: to show the path of redemption, redeem myself.
CHAPTER XXXIX

_The Chapel in the Wood_


There is a little chapel which stands back from the Bagshot Road. The
beauty of its outlines is hidden by the jealous trees. An open gateway
in a side road leads, apparently, into the cool depths of the wood,
without any suggestion that anything more solid than the pines or more
beautiful than the wild violets that grow here in spring is concealed
there.

Ralph Hamon left his car on the Bagshot Road and proceeded afoot
to his investigations. For a time he stood looking at the graceful
lines of the little edifice, though in his mind there was no thought
of its aesthetic beauty or the loveliness of its surroundings. He
only wondered who could have been such a fool as to build a church
miles from the nearest village. He also speculated as to what the
collections were, and what it cost to build the chapel, and who was
the lunatic who had endowed such a useless structure.

The door was open: he went into the tiny porch and pushed gingerly at
the baize door. The interior, with its gorgeous stained-glass windows
and its marble altar, looked bigger than it actually was. A man was
sweeping the tessellated floor, and looked round as he heard the door
close.

"Good-day to you," said Ralph. "Is the vicar about?"

The cleaner shook his head.

"No, sir, there's no vicar here. The curate of St. Barnabas' generally
comes over to take the service. But usually we open it for
marriages--there is one to-day."

"Why for marriages?" asked Ralph, surprised.

"Because it's romantic," said the man vaguely. "You know what young
people are--they like a bit of romance in their lives. It was built
for a marrying church by a rich young parson named--now, what was his
name?"

"Bannockwaite?" suggested Ralph.

"That's the name." The verger shook his head. "He was a bad lot,
according to what I've heard."

It was a marrying church! That was good news. There would be a
register. He asked the question.

"Yes, sir, the register is kept here."

He looked round dubiously toward the vestry door.

"I don't know whether I'm supposed to show it to you. You have to pay
a fee, don't you?"

"I'll pay your fee, my friend. You produce your register."

He followed the man through the little arched doorway into a small
stone room furnished with a table and a few chairs. His fear was that
the verger would not have either the authority for or the opportunity
of showing him the book, but apparently there was no difficulty here,
for the man unlocked the chest and laid a heavy volume on the table.

"What date would it be?"

"It would be five or six years ago," said Hamon.

"That's as long as the church has been built," said the verger
doubtfully, and turned back to the first page to verify his statement.

And the first entry on the first page was the record of a marriage
between Ferdinand Charles Farringdon and Joan Mary Carston!

With fingers that trembled he made a copy of the entry, tipped the
verger lavishly, and hurried out into the open. He saw a man walking
unconcernedly between the pines, but, in his excitement, scarcely
noticed, let alone recognised him.

How was he to use his knowledge to the best advantage? Should he go
to the girl, tell her all he knew, and threaten her with exposure? He
rejected this plan. What was there to expose? Still, he had the
knowledge, and sooner or later it must be of value.

He went back to town in a more cheerful mood than he had been for
days. Julius Welling watched his departure, and would have followed
instantly, but he was anxious to know what business had brought the
financier to Ascot....

Lydia was superintending her packing when her brother arrived, and she
was more amiable than usual.

"You're back, Ralph?" she said. "I wanted to see you about one or two
things. You can't tell how glad I am you've decided to go to America.
I've always wanted to see the United States. You'll go to Palm Beach,
won't you----"

"Let us get this thing right before we go any farther," said Hamon.
"We are not going to America!"

Her face fell.

"We're going to Morocco."

"Morocco!" she gasped. "But, Ralph, you've made the reservations."

He sighed wearily.

"It was necessary to make reservations, because I don't want anybody
to know what my plans are."

"But you have loaned the yacht to Lord Creith. You said you hated the
idea of a sea voyage----"

"We're going by train--as you suggested," said Hamon. "My business
calls me there, and it is absolutely necessary that I should see Sadi
before Christmas."

She was silent and resentful, and stood biting her lip and regarding
him from under her lowered brows.

"I don't like this, Ralph," she said. "There is something wrong."

"There is more than one thing wrong, my dear," he said. "The whole
universe is a little off its feet, and I am speaking more especially
of _my_ universe. I'll tell you this plainly: I want Joan Carston."

She looked up at him.

"You mean you want to marry her?"

"I want to marry her if it is possible," he said carefully. "There are
certain obstacles in the way for the moment, but they won't remain
obstacles very long."

"But if she doesn't like you----?"

"What married couple ever like one another?" said Ralph roughly. "They
are infatuated--in love, as they call it. But liking is a matter of
growth and a matter of respect. And you can make a woman respect you
in half-a-dozen ways. The first essential to respect is fear. Puzzle
that out, my girl."

"Is it necessary that I should come?"

"Very necessary," he said promptly.

She took a cigarette from a little jewelled case and lit it, watching
him keenly.

"I suppose you'll want a whole lot of help from Sadi Hafiz?" she said
carelessly.

"I certainly shall."

"And you think that Sadi will be more amenable--if I am there?"

His surprise did not deceive her.

"I have never thought of it in that light," he said.

"I hate the place!" She stamped her foot angrily. "That beastly old
house and dingy garden, and those wretched women prying at me from
behind the grilles----"

"It is a lovely house," he interrupted enthusiastically, "and the air
is like wine----" He stopped suddenly.

"You're thinking of another house," she said quickly. "Has he
another?"

"I believe he has, somewhere on the hills," he answered shortly, and
refused to be drawn any further on the subject.

He locked himself in his study for the rest of the day, and she
thought he was working; imagined him turning out drawers, destroying
papers, and clearing up the correspondence that such a man allowed
to fall into arrears. But, in truth, Ralph Hamon was dreaming. He
sprawled in an easy chair, his eyes fixed on vacancy, conjuring a
hundred situations in which he played a leading and a flattering part.
He dreamt Jim Morlake into prison and Joan into his arms. He dreamt
great financial coups and the straightening out of life's tangle. And
so he passed from romance to reality, and his dreams became plans,
just as Lady Joan Carston became Lady Joan Hamon.

At five o'clock he unlocked the door and lounged into his sister's
room. She had a cup of tea, a novel and a cigarette, but she also had
found occupation for her thoughts, and the book was unread and the
cigarette was burning itself away in the jasper tray.

"You look pleased with yourself."

"I am," he said, his eyes shining, "I am!"


CHAPTER XL

_The Lover_


"Please, sir, there's a lady to see you."

Cleaver spoke in hushed tones, and, by the air of awestricken wonder,
Jim gathered somebody unusual had called.

"Who is the lady?" he asked, and knew before the man replied.

"Lady Joan."

Jim jumped up from his chair.

"Why didn't you ask her in?" he said.

"She wouldn't come in, sir. She is on the lawn: she asked if she could
speak to you."

He hurried out into the garden. Joan was standing at the river bank,
her hands behind her, looking down into the water, and, hearing the
swish of his shoes on the grass, she turned.

"I wanted to see you," she said. "Shall we cross the river? I am on my
way to the house, and you might take me as far as the coverts."

God has made beautiful, and you almost say that I am not only entitled
but has the duty to spruce up and enhance the beauty and show that
God has given you.

Otherwise it would be ingratitude to God and ignore what they taught the
parable of the five talents.

And very strange that you, who have been with me defending the property
is now back and put me on the side of Don Policarpo to contest
such property.

So what if Juanita has money, why not spend it on a whim and dress
like a queen? And what she lacks to be queen or empress? Moved the
apothecary for his malicious spirit, and encouraged others with
hatred and envy of women responded, but with good speech, with shame
and ridicule to As Don Pascual claimed.

Juana la Larga largartona was declared one of the first force,
Juanita, a girl who was lost and perverting and corrupting the
morals, and Don Paco, an old chinadísimo, mother and daughter who
were in a ridiculous e iban As had to suck.

With the most recent dispute was right to come into the shop Mr Don
Paco, and before reaching the back had the displeasure to hear and
understand the horrors there spreading.

All are silent because they face side did not want to offend him.

The wound, however, was already done. It took another twist to the
conversation. There was talk of different things. Paco and Don found
it wiser not to suggest that he had heard, and not bring the conversation
back to topic so embarrassing for him.

In order to hide, tried to appear calm and cheerful, spoke about
the political developments; welcomed Don Andrés Rubio has just gained
a great cross and is already excellent and, finally, threw a few
hands with tute teacher. apothecary to teasing, saying that he did
not believe in the power of your nail electrified, and the apothecary
in order to convince him that the day promised less thought, when
he was well prepared, you call ahead and make it the experience of
lighting the lamp and fire the gunshot.

Don Paco was reported, concealed their grief and their anger, but
not either returning home, he started the sentence tears and anger
him fray fists as it was before any enemy who give of stab wounds.

He could not, however, quarrel with the entire population. His
daughter was the most guilty, and he had suffered. To ruminate
over, he saw no other way of revenge, to punish his daughter and
acquiring the right and duty to defend against all that Juanita
offer your hand and marry her.

Woe to those who dare then to say anything offensive against Juanita,
although her debut every day another silk dress!

thought at all, questioned his heart and his heart told him he was
losing in love with the girl.

Then he stood no more Don Paco reflections, and at his office and
wrote to Mrs doña Juana Gutierrez (aka deleting the _Larga_) a
serious epistle asking how the hand of his daughter.

He followed the sheriff and town crier, who served at the same
time raised and help of camera, and he asked that the next day, very
early in the morning, take that statement ended the long and Juana was
delivered by hand itself. This done, lay down and slept with some peace
of mind, who has served as a duty, and with some satisfaction, as
one who has a pike in Flanders.

XX Juana eventually be filled with joy when, at seven o'clock, he
received the letter and spelled it with no little fatigue, because,
although it could read not read to run and what hindered black.

It was very thoughtful and forward-Juana, and not thought about the
difficulties and only thought of the triumph that she and her
daughter, in their feelings, they had achieved.

He went then to the lower chamber, where Juanita was sewing, and
gave him the greatest joy of what was happening. As commentary, the
mother knew but did not cry: - What a victory!

All these bitches, Cochin, will explode when you know. - Well, hey, mama
- Juanita replied with the most sleep -: I do not want anyone from
bursting, it is best not to know anyone. - What you mean, girl - I
mean is that we, you, me and him, the burst would be unreasonable
if it did so.

Doña Inés not suffer, and the chief priest and the church and state,
the temporal and the eternal, fall on us and crush us.

We will cast the place kicks. And who knows where else succeed, and how
long it would take to bring you the reputation and clientele that we
have, so I am sewing, Don Paco and the power that is here and
mangoneo profitable, due in great part to its capacity, but not
much less in the shade and support of Don Andres, who denies. - And
where you get these omens so distressing? - It is not necessary to
be a prophet or seer out. And besides, I'm not in love with Don
Paco, or perhaps he is in love with me.

What is the wedding? What are we gaining on it?

Do not you understand that I was asked by an extreme delicacy? I am
grateful that I lisonjea much evidence of appreciation that I get,
but do not pass flattered and grateful.

I came home places, and it has given me the suit, and because the bad
language murmur, he thinks remedy the wrong by marrying me. So for the
same reason that you should marry, because of it and you've said,
or to get me to marry the son of the farrier, as more and less
talked about my relationship with him that my relationship with Don
Paco.

Nothing, Mom: this is nonsense, or a test, if you want, that the good
knight Don Paco is a full, although not having the lions, the pajarracos
and other chirimbolos whose son in the shield. -- And if you, my
daughter, you acknowledge and confess that Don Paco is a gentleman,
why not taking it for a husband - I do not want to get married
by calculation, but because I wanted to marry for calculation,
this calculation will now be very wrong, and especially because I
have it for the world to take advantage of generous chivalry that
the word man to catch and to satisfy my vanity and my ambition since
I have no love.

His delights me, I welcome your discretion, I hear you speak with great
pleasure, but for this to be yours and want to marry him there are still
far behind. I do not want to save for a bounce. Here, among us,
sometimes I have felt inclined to go along this path, to walk this
path, and God knows if he had gone without these trips that have
been, but in the end, I have yet to come. -- Oh girl, what you and
subtleties tiquis miquis me down!

How to know the know that you don Pascual crowded the crown! As you say
if it seems taken from those books that you don Pascual to read. But,
finally, to respond to the letter of Don Paco? I'll do whatever you
want, because the most important to you than me because you know more
than Lepe. - So what we have to reply but thank you and tell you
that odd? - Who gets write that? I think that I should write ... and
spin doctors. I will not be able to put the gold pen with me. You'll.
You 're saying and I will go on writing, but I seem Squigs letters.

Alas, most of the day, because my writing has fallen into disuse. Since
your father died in the war against the Carlists, but I did not write
the bills. - In good or bad character, you need to write the letter,
I will go to dictate to you. - Today, yet. Is dagger rogue?

Who are we? Before giving an important step, you should meditate
and consultations. Not much twenty-four hours of completion. Today
I write not. Tomorrow, if you still scared now have the view, write,
although I though, what you tell me. Juanita was not sure that their
resolution was to change however hard they meditate. It had, however,
yield to the entreaties of Juana and waited until the following day,
which, dividing the work, as is said, made between the letter, which,
by its significance and impact of subsequent events in this simple
and true story, we provide here.

The letter read as follows: Mr. Don Paco: we are very proud of my
daughter and I honor that you made in the letter just received. We are
grateful to all the soul. The girl he loves you and he feels much
more, but said that can not and should not accept what you propose.
Believe that it was an unwise move on their part to sermon dressed
as a princess, for more on him pandering to the people who wanted
to bite.

The whole place is now risen. Remedy would be the wrong wedding. Increase
the rebellion and mutiny.

His daughter would put you at the helm. We could not resist. All three
would have to go with the music to another party. Finally, Don Paco,
Juanita says that the wedding would be insane. It says, finally, that
she did not send in your heart, that the age difference is great
between you and does not want you to love, though he professes
friendship finest.

It would be very ugly part of her abusing the generosity of you to
fulfill your ambition or vanity married by calculation, and would be
very foolish, because the calculation would be wrong.

The best and most discreet that you do not get married and no one knows
who has given you this step.

Doña Inés hate us if you accept the proposition, but also hate us more
and we will declare war if we do not accept checks, as they have been
looking at his father with unfounded arrogance.

Matter, then, hide this.

Here I return to you your letter.

Rásguela and rip my own, so that there is no written evidence of what
happened, and keep you in your memory happy memories of us.

Believe in and send our deep gratitude to his friend and constant
afectísima servant, qbsm, _Juana Gutiérrez_.

XXI Don Paco was hurt and pleased with both the reading of the letter,
which he described as very quiet and looked as dictated by Juanita
. If she had been accepted by husband, Don Paco content was high, but
lower its estimate of the value of Juanita, who was then to get
pumpkins. Perhaps a vague suspicion that Juanita had been watered down
to take the opportunity to see the happy she accepted. If you are
extremely hurt that she also mentioned that it is not loved, could
not help but applaud the loyalty of the statement.

Don Paco was in line with regard to appreciation of the circumstances
that were against the wedding and that made it appear to any
sensible prediction as a source of trouble and evil.

Hence his feelings when reading the letter were of pain and
mortification self-esteem by the affection of Juanita, of admiration
and applause for the prudent conduct of the girl, and more loving
towards her, and the noble frankness out the causes that justified
their disdain, for the friendly with sweetness sought softened.
known of Don Paco mattered much to her request and the subsequent
rejection failed to tell, and although he had no courage to rip or
burn what he wrote and the response of Juana, both documents stored
in the most secret hideaway your desktop.

Moreover, this done more than his sentence and see if you forget to
Juanita, or at least if it still wanted to calm and with some warmth,
to impatient to wait for God to improve without the hours, and
that hope is the last thing that gets lost in this life.

And now, either to oblivion or to warm or cool his fervent passion,
resolved never to set foot in the home of Juanita and avoid gathering
in the church, in the streets and the plaza.

Juanita, meanwhile, was just as friendly and enjoyed the company
of the conversation of Don Paco, was grieved and regretted isolation
of the sacrifice that had to do.

There, in the depths of his soul when he was alone with his conscience,
and with remarkable serenity clearance and impartial as she looked
around, he repeated the subtle reflections that try to express in the
following soliloquy: I have well deserved.

He lived until the day desgobernada and very silly and crazy.
My mother, God forgive me if the victim has little trial but may
well miss the endearing love that I have.

The truth is that both have done a lot of nonsense. Is that fair pay.
I should not complain.

First, I still marriageable boy, and if not occupying a certain position,
aspiring to occupy, I should stop going to the source water and to
wash albercón.

Should give me more tone.

And since I can not say, was even more absurd to want to suddenly
become obscure and lady and stun and excite the envy and anger
mujeril the lordship of this place.

Even my sudden change could have had success before when rightly earn
the goodwill of the powerful and illustrious lady doña Inés López de
Roldan.

But, far from it, what I did was to provoke his anger.

If the treatment of Don Paco pleased me and I had fun, I have never
thought myself to marry him, and here comes another good that I
regret my folly, otherwise complete lack of caution in my mother
and me.

How to get to talk every night Don Paco, sometimes alone and sometimes
in the company of Antoñuelo, which is almost worse? We did because we
gave the real gains, regardless of who we are poor because the
gains of the poor is not real, but it needs be subject to death and
found no satisfaction in order not to expose themselves to very cruel
punishment. Our salon was very innocent, you can argue that the most
innocent of Doña Inés. How to avoid, however, that Doña Inés knew and
believed in good faith to a thousand abominations, aroused by the
gossip of Crispina, everything smells and it smells when it invented?

She surely would say that first Antoñuelo was my friend Don Paco and
the mom, then, that I had grabbed two, one for taste and for
other spending, and that I was eating thousand sweets he brought
me a gift and even the exquisite and unique chocolate that is
manufactured at home from her.

I understand what furious that doña Inés would and even more to
suspect that Don Paco could marry me, doña Inés wants to inherit his
sons to inherit or savings and Don Paco finquillas will collect, for
which no matter what Don Paco marry, or marry a noble widow that
I know and that would certainly aristocratic gloss, and would
certainly not children, because it is already past and Huera and
the case of Abraham and Sarah is not repeated .

'Thus, if not in terms of worth to me, in very similar terms,
Juanita went to their own.

Then continued: "It is vital that I amend and adjust my behavior
to reason and convenience.

I have dual view, my mother and myself.

And since (this can not be denied) I am candid as the dove, is not
well that I forget the other half of the sentence that I have heard
the Gospel many times the father Anselmo in his sermons.

Therefore, hereafter I intend to be clever and wise as the serpent.

The life of rustic zagalona not be thinking about it again.

God that I also fall into the temptation to show off bad princess.
Nothing to head back into the air and the pitcher for these
andurriales and not anything to get the gorgeous silk dress while
no win position, authority and title durable and legitimate enough,
for the sizes of boldness.

Now I should follow a fair average: just leave the house, sewing
and embroidery much and go often to church, to church and my
devotions, very humble, with dress of percale, and blankets as well,
to erase the bad impression I innocently foolish or caused, to reach
and acquire reputation saint.

"You could not help but smile Juanita, despite the annoyance that
was, and then continued:" Certainly I'm not bad and I love God above
all things and I am happy to give adoration and worship, but also,
what diantres!

why not confess?

, I love and I worship myself. Perhaps it is sin. What I do is that
this second worship, not to scandalize anyone, not public, but
mysterious.

With external I seem like a blessed poor, but why do I have to the
pleasure of taking care of grooming and polish with great care this
cuerpecito God has given me?

No one suspected it, I cherish and I have to wash it as if it were
one of the Infanta of Spain. What a horror, holy heavens, if you
know, for example, Julian, mule!

I have heard it at the source while giving water to their mules,
and making crosses, which caused outrage when served in a marquesa
Cordova, to find out, be it in the kitchen, leading to such a great
lady and lebrillo two large jugs of water to her room.

"What would you do - you asked a girl - if your wife also used by a
lebrillo style?" "Well, I - he replied - agarraría rod and put a
black caned by mantesona and indecent."

Necessary is a mystery I do my cleaning, if I do not want me excommunicates
Julian and most of my compatricios to run like him. But not for that
reason I will no longer be clean.

In addition, I want to be very careful, in my gifted linen interior.

During leisure, ahorrillos my thing and if not for the street, I
do fine and shirts embroidered petticoats not use the best one
Archduchess of Austria.

Covered all with a cheap costume outside, I look like the violet, which,
hidden among the green leaves and perhaps ugly weeds, knowing that
there is no other than having the nose too fine for its delicate aroma
and the discover. I will be like that character in a romance that
recites don Pascual, who wore a pilgrim's character wearing a cape
and not worth a real-value below one that had a city.

"Juanita, to quote these verses and apply them, they forgot its
melancholy and drop a laugh. - What are you laughing at, girl? -
he once told his mother -.

Because laughter is not what is happening to us. - Yeah, Mom, is a
thing of laughter. Best laugh that is rage.

When things are made to laugh, penalties that cause or mitigating
console.

Juanita was not content with thinking and suggested that far left,
but they all met with the utmost accuracy and persistence.

It took many months. The change of Juanita began to be felt and celebrated
among the most devout of the place.

Father Anselmo, uniquely, and without being able to remedy, in
spite of his Christian humility and contempt of himself, felt a
noble pride, and it was suggested that had the most sudden and
miraculous conversion, and arresting those nice young sinner the
edge of the abyss that was already in a rush.

XXII rehabilitation cost Juanita long time, and many sacrifices,
work and effort of will.

It was the hardest thing for her to live, especially in the beginning,
in complete solitude.

Was bored, and often afraid he was going to become sick with jaundice.
I could not wanted to go back and talk again with friends and
resume the previously mozuelas treaty, which already offended,
perhaps you would sofiones thousand, was no less intimate, although
he wished, with the nobles and the daughters of rich farmers, who
boasts señoritas and huirían it, so for the humble position of her
mother by her illegitimate birth and the bad reputation it had in
place, and spread among all its inhabitants.

Juanita had to lose the friendship and to the treatment of Antoñuelo.

And this not only to stop giving fuel to the evil, but because
Antoñuelo was very stupid and she was in the accuracy of fire boxes
and intemperate forever.

Two days after Father Anselmo preached his famous sermon, Antoñuelo
returned from their raids. So is not talking at the scene but the
scandal that Juanita had and deserved the severe lesson of Father
Anselmo had received.

Once in the plaza, and in the shade of some cottonwoods that are
on the hill near the church and where people meet and talk girl,
several friends and acquaintances to tease heavily for the role
Antoñuelo snubbing and ridiculous that it had accounted revered,
worshiping and serving almost as a deity to which he disdained a
mozuela and accepting, who know to what extent, the gifts and the
love of a happy match.

Relations between Juanita and Antoñuelo may seem unbelievable to
those who think it briefly, but I think they are more frequent
natural and what is imagined.

From childhood had lived in the greatest intimacy and Juanita
Antoñuelo. With a short gap, had the same age, and was sure that
had been reared together.

He was zafio, rude, naughty and daring, he had little range and a
willingness Realengo so that neither his father was subject; respect
for these defects was founded Juanita's friendship towards him.
Juanita had acquired and retained tai rule on that boy, who got the
respect, and obey temiese like a dog to his master.

She did not ever want to the imagination Antoñuelo as a woman wants a
man.

And he, as one hand was a superior being and his instincts on the
other hand were loving vulgaris, and to employ objects easier
satisfaction, and without realizing it, and ignoring its substance
and its name, devoted to Juanita a pure love, and platonic ideal.

Such sentiments, though over, no stranger to the soul of the most
popular subjects.

All or almost all men are thirsty, need to venerate and worship something.
The spiritual, wise, discreet, easily understood and adores a
metaphysical entity, God, virtue, or science.

But the rough, the little known but it is unclear what science, what
is virtue and what is God, without thinking that embodies love,
it almost instinctively to an idol visible body of package.

Juanita was this idol for Antoñuelo. Juanita was also oracle. The
religious respect with heard their warnings and admonitions, in
good faith and promised and promised to take them to the early
pattern of his behavior.

Whenever Antoñuelo was in the presence of Juanita, she felt overwhelmed
by their influence, amazed by his superior intelligence and linked
to the will of her.

Unfortunately, no good Antoñuelo Juanita was absent, the influence
vanished benefactor, and brutal instincts and bad passions came in
droves and undo or break the bonds and gave good advice to oblivion
and precepts that Juanita had given him.

Antoñuelo away from the fascination and charm that he had
been almost miraculously preserved as a rational being, became one
in a stupid and lost.

Despite the inefficiency, lack of time, its power of purifying the soul
Antoñuelo, Juanita wanted him, he looked and felt flattered his
pride as dominant, albeit momentarily. To give an accurate picture of
Juanita's inclination towards that young man, who seemed to say
that I've seen some great ladies who have already by alan, and a mastiff
big and powerful they are at home, which inspired terror to the
visits, which seemed capable of overthrowing a man a simple smash and
a bite, and that, however, misses the most humble to the plants
of their loves and inexplicable pleasure if she feels with her white
hand he touches the head or foot, or step it shakes.

In the occasion that we are talking about the vicious taunts of his
comrades had Antoñuelo transformed, its meekness and domesticity
were gone: it was no longer a dog, but wolf.

Brought very studied the speech, if speech can be known what was
going to say, and so that was not erased from memory or is tangled
in caletre, wanted to download it as I drop a weight and put it ado.

The occasion was conducive to their desire.

Juana was in the kitchen and found Antoñuelo Juanita sewing alone
in the room.

"I know; it used to belong to a man
named Hamon."

"What! Ralph Hamon?"

"Yes, he's a millionaire now. He wasn't so rich then, and he used to
live here in the summer."

"Oh, he did, did he?" said Welling softly. "I'd like to see that
cottage."

The path up the hillside was overgrown with weeds, though at one
time it had been well kept, for it was gravelled and in places steps
had been made to facilitate the owner's progress. The house bore a
lifeless appearance; the windows were shuttered, spiders had spun
their webs in the angles of the doorposts.

"How long did the lawyer live here, you say?"

"He never lived here. He owned the place, but I think it has been
unoccupied since Mr. Hamon left--in fact I'm sure it has. Mr. Hamon
sold it to him as it stood, furniture and all.... I'm sure of that
because Mr. Steele--that was the lawyer's name--told me he intended
letting it furnished."

Welling tried to pry open one of the shutters and after a while
succeeded. The windows were grimed with dust and it was impossible to
see the interior.

"I intend going into this cottage," said Welling and brought his stick
down with a crash upon one of the window-panes.

Inserting his hand, he drew back the window-bolt and lifted the sash.
There was nothing unusual about the appearance of the room. It was
a simply furnished bedroom, and though dust lay thick upon every
article, there was a certain neatness about the character and
arrangement of the furniture which defied the dishevelling results of
neglect. Nor was there anything remarkable about the other rooms. The
furniture was good and the carpets, which had been rolled up, were
almost new.

But the furnishing of the room did not seem to interest Welling. His
attention was devoted to the walls, all of which were distempered in
pink. At the back of the house was a fairly large kitchen, the windows
being heavily barred.

"Would you like me to search the bureau----"

Welling shook his head.

"You will find nothing there," he said. "What I am looking for is----"

He opened the window and pushed out the shutter.

"Now I think I can find what I want," he said, and pointed. "Do you
see that patch?"

"I see nothing," said the puzzled officer.

"Can't you see that a portion of the wall here has been repainted?"

The kitchen was distempered white, and the irregular patch of new
paint was distinct.

"Here is another," said Welling suddenly.

He took a knife from his pocket and began to scrape the wash
carefully.

"Murder will out," he said, speaking to himself.

"Murder?" said the other in surprise.

For answer, Welling pointed to a pear-shaped stain that his knife had
uncovered.

"That is blood, I think," he said simply.

With his pocket handkerchief he cleared the dust from the table and
examined the top inch by inch.

"It has been scraped here. Do you feel that?"

He felt tenderly along the surface of the pine wood.

"Yes, it has been scraped."

"Do you suggest----?"

"I suggest that your unknown sailor was hammered to death in this very
room," said Welling.

"But Mr. Hamon would have known."

"He probably wasn't in residence," said Welling, and his companion
accepted this as completely exonerating the former owner of the
bungalow.

"Naturally you wouldn't think of searching a near-by house to discover
how some poor sailor had met his death," mused Welling. "I think that
is all I want to know, Inspector. It seemed completely own the field,
but the field was so well entrenched, Don Paco could not enter it and
stayed away as the others. Why not go broke in the evening at home
in both Juanas but not daily.

As usual, playing tute with the mother, as usual, spoke with Juanita
in general conversation, and Juanita and I heard also spoke very
demonstrating careful fine until his friend and admirer of yours,
but also as usual, these fiery glances and sighs suppressed evil
Don Paco passed without being noticed and were machacaren cold iron,
or an effect contrary to Don Paco wanted Juanita being serious and
angry, disturbed his frank to hold back their joy and expansions
friendly.

In this way, a little triumphant venture for Don Paco, spent a few days
and reached the last of July.

It was an unbearable heat. During the day the birds were in the air
when Asaba not found that shade shelter. During the night refresh
enough. In the clear and serene sky resplendent moon and many stars,
who, instead of wrapping it in a black cloak, and stained with
bright blue and features silver embroidery refulgentes gold.

Juanas Both Paco did not receive a gift in the room but in the
courtyard, where much enjoyed the freshness and smell dompedros,
which gave its rich scent at night, with basil and herb luisa,
which had no bedding and a few pots, and jasmine and climbing roses,
which called Andalusia _pitiminí_ and climb the bars of the windows
in the rooms on the first floor, where Juanita and her mother slept.

In that place, as delightful as modest Don Paco was received. still
there, in the light of a burnishing velón de Lucena, refulgente
azófar to be played in a bedside notebook tute, but not with persistence
as indoors.

Other distractions, mostly food, the lack substituted in the
game. Juana, who was as industrious, used to make ice cream in a
small bottle that was, but most frequently entertained either
eating pine nuts, or toasted almonds and chickpeas, or flowers from
corn that Juanita had the ability to jump very well in the pan, lupins
and pray, and sometimes even when palmitos muleteers brought them
from the province of Malaga because of Cordova is not the breed.
semicenas These hardy, worthy of being held by Don Francisco
Gregorio de Salas in his famous _Observatorio_ , Don Paco delight
more that could delight the old dinner Trimalción or Apicio and
modern Maison Dorée Café or English in Paris, those rude looks best
food they eat ragweed that the deities of Olympus, as Juanita ,
eating them, informing them of a heavenly nature or Olympic.

Those trinkets, appendices to the real dinner that everyone had already
taken in your home before the gathering, also tested when the two
Juanas Paco and Don are eaten without the slightest shock, and
without any bad results, that our three heroes have three stomachs
of healthy, effective and powerful in the world.

One night in those ladies who were very familiar, benign and chatted
with Don Paco, that he dared to offer something that was thought
to provide time without end deciding on fears that do not accept
their gift. discarding the fear, after all said: - Today in eight
days, the fourth day of August, there will be great parties in this
town.

There will be processions, fairs, evening, according to church and
sermon, preached that the parent Anselmo, counting and celebrating
the life and miracles of Santo Domingo de Guzmán glorious, our
patron and advocate in heaven.

I have a piece of silk fabric, flexible and rich, by the style of
these shawls that called espumilla or Manila.

No embroidery and is dark green. Months has sent me a gift my nephew
Jacinto, which is used in Philippines Finance. There is still time
to make with this fabric a beautiful dress for women.

And who would take him more panache and flaunting Juanita, if you
accept my present ?

The fabric is Room for making the dress, and if you want to hurry,
still have plenty of time.

Mother and daughter gave a thousand thanks to Don Paco for his good
intention, by showing reluctance to accept what you say and maintain
that when seeing a Juanita outfit with luxurious as any place is
alborotaría, guess that was a gift of silk and don Paco and he
would give them a bell clatter. replied Don Paco Nothing so sensible
arguments, but did something more eloquent and persuasive.

He took a chair he had brought a bundle wrapped in a handkerchief demure,
and splits in two, showed the material in the light of velón. Both
women admired this beauty, the divine rated. The eyes and soul are
iban towards the canvas.

In sum, could not resist and accepted the gift. Jane wanted to be
more difficult and Juanita had to give up and accept it before.

It was well don Paco, at about twelve o'clock, Juanita told her
mother. - I have not managed to resist. The fabric is lovely. What
I like about it is its flexibility because it has no stiffness and other
silks. Will stick very well to the body and may be a lot of flying
skirts, which will be very graceful folds. Come on ... I have fallen
into temptation. What they will not bite the murmuring and envious
when I see so and so beautiful peripuesta go to church depending on
the day of Santo Domingo?

For you, Mom, you go with your blanket embroidered tulle, and I
borrow or gave me the other you have of madrone, which is how I paint.
Several times I have drawn from the bottom of the chest and I've tried
looking in the mirror. Much will rage when I see so maja clerk of the
daughters, who spend so much fantasy as two Marquesas, although they
are always wrong and Esperpentos pergeñadas. - Yes, daughter, because
the child is so escuchimizada looks like a worm dirty pipe, and the
other is so pequeñuela and as fat as a ball.

If you come to marry, have children and more fat, you lose the form
of a woman and become cochinillo of San Antón.

But leaving this aside, I do not have them all with me. Wake up the
most tremendous envy and bring us as a gift rag. - Chest to water
and prepare to fight.

What can I say? Don Paco saw me? Well, I'm going to wear ...

Don Paco, and legs.

Look: ahorrillos go with my morning to shop and buy cloth _Murciano_
Tarrasa or the best you have.

Calculate how many yards you need.

The Gabino has, as Castor or call, but his Levite, though it makes
no more than ten or twelve times a year, is pure and shameless raid.
No joke, with much secrecy, you and I are going to make a new
Levite, according to the latest figures _The Elegant Fashion and
Ilustrada_ you received from Madrid the other day.

As you have the Don Paco and you are very clever, the Levite, not tested
or anything, it will fall very well, and you will see how and with what
majesty the joke wears in the procession when it leaves the other
gentlemen del Ayuntamiento. So I am not alone, but he, who in such a
solemn pledge ESTRENE day. - But, girl, you say it is not put
out the fire, but to get fuel to burn more. If you have a murmur like
to see the dress again, murmured to do with two new Levite Don Paco.
- Well, that murmur.

What I propose to give the Levite, plus the satisfaction that I have
the gift to Don Paco, is that nobody accuses me, and above all,
that I acknowledge myself to have clothing without giving something
in return equivalent.

Determined things well, the next day he bought the cloth. Juana cut
safely with skill and the Levite woman's dress, and mother and daughter
and two officers worked with such zeal, that the three in August,
the eve of the saint, dressed as a woman levitated and were finished.

XIV When that night came Don Paco places, he was surprised to learn
the Levite.

The almost angry, and he jumped up the tears of pure thanks. In the
same courtyard tested Levite; did give her four or five trips, and
both women found that the Levite Don Paco was very successful, and
it was not the whole purpose, because he had not brought Gabino,
but the fungus, as usual, and the Levite and the fungus does not
blend well.

Animados and three and good humor, said Don Paco: - I do not understand
why you both love and loneliness are so withdrawn. The square is lively
tonight. The whole world will come to the festival and see the
fireworks, which they say will be great.

Start at about eleven o'clock, and as you have many rocket and two
or three suns or wheels, the last thing a big castle, ending with
a terrifying thunder fat, the festival will last until after midnight.

People want the big thunder erupts at the time that begins on the
day of the saint, the saint and expects to hear from heaven and is
happy that he sponsored his greetings and congratulations.

Why do not you dare go and to enjoy all this? We will go together.
I accompany. - I would like to go - Juana answered - but I fear
that as we get sucked dominoes when we watch together. - Look, Mom,
let us bring to you as ; to me I get to go inside, and I do not
want to walk with repulgos.

We go and burn Troy.

As we are, so good, with nothing in his head, we have only to put in
place.

Without further hesitation, the three then went to the fair that
evening and were in the plaza, which, with many lanterns that lit
up and Candilejas seemed an ember of gold and the bustle and crowds
of people who almost filled, it was a human anthill.

In the balconies, in windows and doors of the houses, the elderly and
shaft sitting in chairs.

The girls are walking or stopped to contemplate stores itinerant merchants
extended to the square and two or three streets that lead into the
square.

The shops to which people were the most crowded of toys and dolls.

Chicuelo just had that was not gifted by their parents or friends
of their parents with a cock, with a trumpet or a drum.

And almost immediately deployed all their musical instruments in
the market they had, the air resounded with martial and cheerful,
if somewhat discordant harmony.

Missing or in-store doll tubes marine siempretiesos, sabers and
rifles of wood and brass, especially Santo Domingo and of various
sizes, all of clay and painted in colors live.

These images were the most commonly sold, because the holy inspired
fervent devotion among the people.

The atmosphere was embalmed by the smell of fried oil of more than
fifteen buñolerías where gypsy freien old girls and released
continuously fluffy fritters, some People ate there with brandy or
chocolate and others were brought to his house, all strung on a
long, flexible and green rushes.

Neither here nor missing posts delicious fruit, but attracted the
most attention were the Chicuelo the almecinas because, besides the
taste of eaten, providing fun pulling the aim of bringing the target.

Every guy who bought also bought a tube almecinas cane blowgun
where, having eaten little meat and black fruit, blowing the fire
round and hard bones.

These shells were whistling through the air like bullets in a tough
battle, unless they were much more innocent, just because they harm,
whether by an evil and a rare chance failed to give someone in the
eye, then they could either leave tuerto .

If so pitiful, however, rarely occurs, and therefore the crowd was quiet
walk in the middle of that fierce fire fight. There was, finally,
the night show seven or eight tables nougat, and up to three
tearooms, where what is more abundant buds were dispatched, the
threads of preserved egg and potatoes.

It is said that when a farmer who assumed Very rumboso want to give
your girlfriend or the girl who goes along, he goes and asks the
confectioner buds or yams. - How many do you want?

- says being a confectioner of the dishes on the weight of the
weight quarter. - Take you _jierro_ - replied the gallant.

The confectioner puts weighs half a pound. - Take you more _jierro_
- trouserpress repeated several times, and the confectioner is
missing almost all the weights.

But if the girl full of exquisite delicacy, and with more modest
questioning claims that the difficulty in moving house so balumba
confectionery and grief, and ensures that they can not eat in a
week or two, who are going sour, dry or rancid.

Anyway, she is so eloquent, that the gallant, though initially
resisted calling the young lady of the almond half, after it is
left to convince, but not suddenly, but little by little, and as
you enter the conviction in her mood and she continues talking, he
interrupted to say stretches confectioner: - Remove _jierro_ you.
and thus ends up being left in the saucer of weights more than the
quarter, and sometimes two ounces.

To not that he does not have any attraction for the evening, there was
also a military banda music, which had been preserved since the days
when there were national militia, unveiled and thanks to the efforts
of Don Andrés Rubio, who was commander of the militia .

The eight musicians consisting of banda even wore when playing iban
ceremonial uniform of the old extinct institution defender of our
freedoms.

They were artisans or journeymen musicians of the most ready, not
playing badly, and if the municipality were paid a stipend of six
and up to eight real each.

This will Villalegre of freedom was subject to tax in the old, to
come from the neighboring city, where there was light, the musicians,
who last name in the place _tragalentejas_.

Don Paco walked to her friends throughout the exhibition , giving
little to no murmur, as planned.

As these were the finest that day, none was close to talk, and were
in poor position to rich farmers, owners and nobles, the aristocrats
disdained.

Juanita illegitimate birth was the greatest isolation.

Juanita had become a friend. Among the boys, as he had neglected for
many, the poor are not offended by him or timid, and ricachos that if
it had been easy for visiting stubborn at home, peel off or cut
feared accompanied in public.

Antoñuelo was the only trousers that are still happy to accompany
Juanita; Antoñuelo but then went astray and was quite absent in
one of their raids on the nearby places. The girls who were fetching
water at the source of the ejido, and muleteers , pigpens and
pastors who came to water the cattle, whereas Juanita since stopped
going there was tone lady, did not dare let a greeting.

All night, or until the fires ended, which was already close to a
mother and daughter remained in the plaza, and had been for no other
companion Don Paco, Don Pascual whether the school master, was not
too attached to them. He was a bachelor don Pascual of more than
sixty years delicate health, thin and small body, but smart and sweet
character. Since I was six years Don Juanita Pascual, pledged their
clearance and their vivacity, was careful to teach reading and
writing, and some accounts other basic skills.

Juanita had been a schoolteacher in a constant admirer and useful, because
it had been for her, in the absence of aya, ay free celosísimo.
She, however, did much to honor his teacher, then took their lessons
hours and off school was deserted when the boy went ahead disciple so
that almost ashamed to all who attended the school. No one knew it
better than the Catechism of Ripalda and the epitome of the grammar.
Nobody knew better the four rules.

Juanita had also learned something of geography and history, and
now, when he was just nine years, thank you very much recited with
several old romances and tales of many Samaniego.

Time was that don not visited Juanita Pascual or his mother. First,
the frequent visits Antoñuelo he was shocked. retrajo Then I go
home over the two Juanas know that both Don Paco frequented.

Perhaps it was the teacher who's good and don Paco Antoñuelo enough
in that house, and that if he would and would not be a hindrance.

That night we went through about Don Pascual Juanita, and this is
addressed him saying: -- -Good evening, master.

What we have done to you, how expensive is sold and we have so forgotten?
Many were the kind of girl flattery, concern that he could be
hindrance is removed completely from Magín and accompanied the two women
throughout the evening, being the fourth character of the group.

You walked four, and sat on the stone benches that are in the plaza.

Iban always in the middle or the two women, and alternate on
either side, both Galanes. Comfits They want to gift with, but
neither consented size waste.

For Don Paco did not take a snub, he left John bought him a handful
of peanuts and cotufas, who threw in his pocket and was eating.
Juanita, who liked a lot of chestnuts like Amarilis Virgil, agreed
to buy a gift Pascual quarter of pilongas, also went without eating
less playacting.

Don Pascual you satisfied with that she gave him one with finesse,
because as Don Pascual had no teeth, could not gnaw or chew and had
an hour and a half in his mouth, trying in vain to soften, and recalling
that no doubt why, as well as their cheapness, are called chestnuts
pilongas sweets cadet. Pleasantly spent, then, the evening and were
the most enjoyed it, without forgiving the fires with which the evening
ended, and they were splendid.

The Galan, already close to one, two Juanas accompanied to the door
his home.

Each owl to your olive tree, as the saying goes.

Everyone in the place and retreated to bed trying to sleep deeply and
quickly, so be ready and well-warning, early years, for the wonderful
holiday that was to have the next day.

XV From the dawn began to solemnize the August 4 with a clatter of
bells ringing general.

Crowd of both the town and many nearby places, traveling on the
road, went to the square, where the show continued as the night
before, or crowded on the road where the procession had to go,
leaving the church of Santo Domingo, which was the parish, and
re-enter it after giving gentle stroll through the main streets.

These had been well swept and carpets after gayomba and sedge.

Spend waiting to see the procession were many people in the doors,
windows and balconies, whose outstanding grilles and railings wore
colorful damask hangings flesh, green and yellow quilt or cotton
and printed with a huge floripondio orladas and locks of curly
faralaes .

The whole population was demonstrated.

Men or shavings, as the day before and left open the barber who
shaves shaves given until twelve.

The most important and wealthy gentlemen, who were receiving treatment
for a gift, and Castor were levitated up with two or three fractions,
the scribe among them.

The day of clean shirt and his best clothes, if they were young,
ranging in body, but with a long rod or chivato quince, olive, or
ash, and if they were adults, with a layer for the appropriate
decorum for be there for the dress suit coat, which can not, even
cooked and melt the human lineage, as was the case then, because
the sun was Chiribitos.

Women from all social classes were removed from their Trapitos Christian
decorated that day.

Nothing was going with head uncovered. All, it had no head covering,
wearing lightweight wool shawls, scarves, or they called it
_seáticos_ or percale lustrosísimo, imitating silk.

Ladies wealthy and elderly, dressed in black robes or dark taffeta,
twill from Malaga or alepín or cubical, and the ladies, their daughters,
iban with muslin dresses and other fabrics air and steam, but
without any head covering, ora tulle embroidered either in Catalan
or Blonda manchega.

On the pulidez combing and grooming, and foot scrub to enhiesta
tower relucían alongside the tortoiseshell combs, the monkeys of
jasmine, basil and other herbs in odor, and roses and red carnations,
yellow, White and disciplined.

Villalegre Flowers abounded in thanks to the source of the ejido,
whose miraculous properties have already praised, and thanks also
to other Veneros abundant, flowing between rocks at the foot of the
mountain immediately, and several wheels and not a few wells
freshwater, from which water gardens, pots and bedding.

For the iron gates of which were in the best houses were the Florida
courts, some of which orange trees and acacia trees providing
welcome shade.

Plant vines climbing up the walls, forming thick curtain on the windows
of the first floor.

In the center of the courtyard, or a cool fountain that fell into red
jasper cup burnishing or lifting large pots pyramid forming compact
mass flowers and vegetables.

The restless butterflies and dragonflies fluttering around, and the
wasps and bees looking for honey buzz.

The term Villalegre or territory bordering the countryside, where
all lands are uncultivated or uncultured bring bread, no gardens,
or groves, or vineyards.

If anything those green fields as it is in the hollows melons. Everything
else is on that station straw and planted as fallow and stubble,
which burned like tinder and often burned to fertilize the soil. The
plants that rise over there and give more shade are the pitas. Are
more woody and arborescent cardoons and sunflowers.

So the homes are in some way with animal product, which not only
provides warmth, but perfume, except for the air one or two miles
away, so that local people smell well before reaching them, and
even columbrarse on the horizon their steeples.

She had not
gone a few paces when somebody called her, and, looking back, she saw
Welling in a dingy yellow ulster and nondescript hat pulled down over
his head.

"You've been up all night too, Captain Welling?" she said. His chin
was silvery with bristles, his boots thick with mud, and the hand he
raised to lift his hat was inexpressibly grimy.

"I gather from that, young lady," he said, "that you've not had a
great deal of sleep, and I don't blame you. The wind has been most
disturbing. Is his Lordship up?"

"I don't know: I expect so. Father doesn't usually rise till nine, but
I think to-day he has made some sort of arrangement with his valet to
get up at the unnatural hour of eight." She smiled faintly.

"You've had your share of trouble in this village, I think," said the
detective, walking at her side; but she did not make any rejoinder to
that most obvious statement. "Queer case, that--very queer! Have you
ever noticed that Morlake wears broad-toed shoes, the American type?"

"No, I haven't noticed anything about him," she said quickly, lest she
should be an unwilling agent to his hurt.

"Well, he _does_," said Welling. "He never wears any other kind. I've
been searching his house----"

"He is gone, then? The maid told me last night--he has gone?"

"Vanished," said Welling. "There is no other word, he has vanished.
That is the worst of these clever fellows--when they disappear they do
it thoroughly. An ordinary criminal would leave his visiting card on
every mile-post."

He waited, but she did not speak, till:

"What is the significance of the broad-toed shoes?" she plucked up
courage to ask.

"Well, it was a pointed toe that killed Farringdon."

At his words she spun round.

"You mean--you mean--that Jim Morlake did not kill him?" she asked
unsteadily. "You mean that, Captain Welling? You are not trying to
trap me into saying something about him, are you? You wouldn't do
that?"

"I'm capable of doing even that," confessed Julius with a mournful
shake of his head. "There is no depth of depravity to which I wouldn't
sink, and that is the truth, Lady Joan. But on this particular
occasion I'm being perfectly sincere. The feet under the window are
the feet of a man who wears French boots with pointed toes. Also, the
gun he used was of much heavier calibre than any Morlake owns. I know
the whole Morlake armoury, and I'll swear he never owned the gun that
threw those two bullets. Jim Morlake has three: the one he carries and
two Service Colts. You seemed pretty sure it was Morlake?" he said,
eyeing her intently.

"Yes, I was," and then, following her impulse: "I saw Mr. Farringdon
killed."

She expected he would be staggered by this revelation, but he only
guffawed.

"I know you did," he said calmly, "you were hiding behind the tree. It
was easy to pick up your footmarks. You came back to the house by way
of the wall path--I found the heel of one of your shoes there and
guessed you were in a hurry. If you'd lost it in daylight you would
have picked it up. If you'd lost it by night and had plenty of time on
your hands, you'd have looked for it. Anyway, you wouldn't have lost
it, if you hadn't been running at such a speed. Do you think Pointed
Toes knew you were there?--by the way, you didn't see his face?"

"How do you know?"

"Because you weren't sure whether it was Morlake or not; therefore,
you couldn't have seen his face. And once more, therefore, he must
have been masked. Black?"

She nodded.

"From head to foot, eh? In that style which Mr. James Morlake has made
popular. I guessed that, too," he said as she nodded. "It may have
been a coincidence, of course, but probably wasn't."

He stopped, and she followed his example. He was looking down at her
with his head thrown back, and his eyes seemed to possess an hypnotic
power.

"Now perhaps you can give me a little information that will be really
useful," he said. "Who else wears pointed French boots in Creith
besides your father?"


CHAPTER XLVII

_The Yacht_


She stared at him for a minute, and then burst into a fit of
uncontrollable laughter.

"Oh, Mr. Welling, for a moment you scared me. Daddy wouldn't kill
anybody: it would be too much bother!"

The detective was unruffled.

"I am not suggesting that your father did shoot this man. I am merely
saying that Lord Creith is the only man within ten miles who wears
pointed shoes."

"How silly!" she scoffed. "Why, lots of people wear pointed shoes. Mr.
Hamon wears pointed----"

She checked herself suddenly.

"That is what I wanted to know," said Julius gently, "that is all I
wanted to know! Does Mr. Hamon wear pointed shoes? I know Lord Creith
does, because I've interviewed the village cobbler, and the village
cobbler knows the secret history of every pair of boots in your
house."

"Mr. Hamon is so rich that he doesn't need to have his shoes
repaired," said the girl, and then, seriously: "You don't suspect Mr.
Hamon? He wasn't in Creith last night."

"If he shot Farringdon, then he certainly was in Creith. If he didn't
shoot Farringdon, I don't care where he was," said Welling.

The reaction after that night of terror and anxiety was so great that
she felt hysterical. She could have flung her arms round the neck of
this interesting old man and hugged him in her joy and relief.

"Are you sure--absolutely sure?"

"About Morlake?" he asked, sensing the cause of her anxiety. "I don't
think there is any doubt about that. He is one of those big-hoofed
fellows. He could not have got his feet into the shoes that left the
marks. Though," he added cautiously, "it is by no means certain that
the owner of the shoes was also the murderer. What makes it look so
queer against Morlake is that Pointed Shoes was in the grounds of Wold
House last night. We've got a cast of his feet leading toward the
river, and at the bottom of the river it is any odds on finding the
pistol with which the crime was committed."

"Why do you say that?" she asked.

"What is more," he went on, "I guess we're going to get a letter from
some person unknown, telling us exactly where to look for that gun. I
love anonymous letters, especially when I'm expecting 'em. The letter
will be in printed characters and will be posted"--he looked up to the
dull sky and considered--"will be posted ... now where will it be
posted? Yes, I have it," he said brightly. "It will be posted at the
G. P. O."

"You're a prophet," she smiled.

Here whispers the leaves of the trees in Asia and France.

In the grass carpets glow flower of the Orient next violets,
cornflowers, and Verbenas Maßlieb from the temperate zone. In some
places stared resin plants in groups of up, and was the geschwängert
air with the subtle scent of vanilla, which in the shadow of balsam
and Ambrastauden prospered.

Also, the two adventurers felt very pleasant temperature in the
twenty-twenty-two degrees, as they are always in the area of Xalapa
and Chilpanzinge is what so here is also generally "moderate stretches
of land" mentioned.

Meanwhile arrived Martinez and his companion more and more after the
plateau of Anahuac up by the massive mountain ridges, which are
in the interior of Mexico branch exceeded.

"Ah! José cried suddenly, as is the first of three mountain streams,
which we have to exceed.

"Really there was a deep cut river not far off their feet."

During my last trip, said José, this game bed was dry. Follow me,
Lieutenant. "Both rode one in the rock ausgehauenen path and came
down to a slightly passirbaren Furth."

That would be the One! José said. - Are the others just as easy to
pass?

asked the lieutenant. - Very well, said Jose. When the rainy season
these rivers anschwellt, then plunge them into the small river
Ixtolucca, which we in the high mountains meet. - We have, however,
in these wilds to fear nothing - nothing, except perhaps a Mexican
dagger!

- Yes indeed said Martinez. The Indians of the highlands of age to her
so good deal to know. - And how many names they have for their
favorite weapon, the Mastwart said laughingly added, eg Estogue,
Verdugo, Puna, Anchillo, Beldoque, Navaja and others.

You have the floor just as quickly in the mouth, like the dagger in his
hand!

But, Santa-Maria, this is pretty good because we need at least the
invisible bullets of the long Carabiner not need fear.

I can not even imagine annoying, as not even to know the One who
makes Garaus. - What Indian tribes live in these mountains?

asked Martinez. - Oh, who can Racen all count, in this paradise of
Mexico City! Consider only the number of crossings, Lieutenant,
I have carefully studirt to become a suitable marriage and vortheilhafte
close.

Because we find the mixed-race, by a Spaniard and an Indian Descended;
the Castisa from a Mestizenweibe and a Spaniard, the mulattos, of
a Spaniard and a Negro; Monisken the addition of a Mulattin and a
Spaniard, the albino, from a Moniskin and a Spaniard, the Tornatras
by an albino and a Spaniard, the Tintinclaire by a Spaniard and a
Tornatras; the Lovo, from an Indian and a negro; the Caribujo by a
Coyote and a Mulattin; the Grifo, from a negress and a Lovo; the
Albarazado by a Coyote and Indian, the Chanisa from a Mestizin and
Indians; Mechino finally, from a Lovo and a Coyote, "José's information
was quite correct; prepares recognized in these areas very problematic
purity of all anthropological research Racen big trouble.

But despite the chatter of his companions learned Martinez quickly
sank back into his former taciturnity.

He even removed voluntarily by the same a little more, because it his
presence seemed to oppress. Soon cut through two other torrents
its way. The lieutenant was very concerned, when it was withered,
because he had expected to be here to water his horse.

"As we stand now, like a ship in calm, if it food and water are
expected, said José. - Bah, follow me. We want those under oaks
and elms a tree, the one here »Ahuehuelt" means so much and just
means, as the wreath on the doors of taverns.

Under his shadow we shall always be a refreshing source and if it
includes only water giebt, you must, my faith, do not forget that
the water of the wine in the desert is, "The horsemen trotted
following the next hill climb and were soon a Art mentioned the
tree But the hoped for spring was dry and seemingly only very
recently.

"That is strange, said José. - Not true, it is striking, said Martinez
pale. So next, fast forward, "Until after the stains
Cacahuimilchan the riders changed not a single word.

They emptied their Mochillas a little, and turned then to Cuernavaca,
further east.

The landscape was already in the wild grandeur and let the giant
peaks guess whose basalt walls of the Great Ocean clouds drawn over
halt. On the curvature of a huge rock was already by the
ancient Mexicans erected Fort Cochicalcho whose plateau nine
thousand square meters.

The travelers went after the giant rock cones, the bears and that
the needles of rugged stone ruins and the threat is crowned.

They rose from their animals tied in the trunk of an elm and klommen
as they arrived to find out about the direction of their path through
the Ueberblick from higher points to satisfy themselves laboriously
to the tabs of the Colossus in the air. It fell down the night,
all around lost in the twilight, its particular shape and took fantastic
shapes.

The Old Fort not a little resembled a huge liability, half lying dormant
with buffalo head, and Martinez 'restless glance believed also in the
body of the ghostly shadow fleeting Thiers then scurry to see. He
remained silent, however, this, not the mockery of unbelievers out
José to demand. It went slowly to the footstraps of the mountain
further, as he once also disappeared behind a lead, opened its
"Santa Maria" and similar exclamations lieutenant soon after the
same spot.

Suddenly lifted a huge night bird with a hoarse cry with burdensome
slow wing beat is upwards.

Martinez rebounded back.

About thirty feet above him fluctuated a mighty boulder visible on
its surface. Now he sparked off and crashed with thunder and
lightning fast crash, all wearing on his way to a yawning, dark
depths.

"Santa Maria! cried the Mastwart. - Lord Lieutenant - José - Here!

"The two Spaniards came back together." That was a talented Avalanche!
I dächte, we climbed back down, "said the seaman. Martinez followed
him without a word to speak, and soon had two back to the lower
plateau is achieved. Here a wide furrow called the Gang of perishable
boulder." Santa Maria! José cried horrified.

Our horses are gone, crushed, Todt - Truly - Convince yourself "That
was in the tree to which it bound the animals were swept away with
this."

If we still had it sat .. ., "remarked the philosophical Mastwart.
Martinez was half frozen horror." The serpent, the source, and now
the avalanche, "he muttered. Suddenly he sprang with bull eyes on
to José." languages you are not just by the master Don Orteva ?
"he cried with rage erzitternden lips. José key back." Oh, no Thorheiten,
Lieutenant! We send our horses a last greeting, and then forward!
This is not good when the old mountain because the head shaking,
"Silently and with great strides hurried the two Spaniards and then
reached in the middle of the night to Cuernavaca; them but it was
impossible to give to horses, and so it The next day ie on foot
along the road to the mountains Popocatepetl.

V. From Guernavaca after the Popocatepetl. The temperature dropped more
and more, each growing stopped.

These inaccessible heights, the "cold land" referred to are
completely on the ice. Even showed the dark regions of spruce their
rigid silhouettes between the last chains of this high mountain
ranges, and were becoming increasingly rare in these sources mostly
from cracked and porous trachyte almond rocks formed solitude.

Six Strong hours already dragged the lieutenant and his companion then
laboriously , injured their hands on the sharp edges of the rocks
and the feet pointed to the stones of the road. Soon the exhaustion
forced them to rest once. Jose did get some food.

"Deuced An idea, not the usual route," he said, half for themselves.

Both hoped Aracopistla in a totally lost in the mountain villages, some
to find a means of transport, in order to complete their journey. How
great was their disappointment when they are not even the slightest
found the same lack of everything and yet this same grudging hospitality,
as mentioned earlier in Cuernavaca.

And yet they had achieved their goal, now rose up before them the
tremendous summit of Popocatepetl to such a height that the view is
lost in the clouds when he looked at the last peak.

The path was arduous to despair. Everywhere opened unmeasured gorges
and seemed dizzy paths under the kicks of walkers to fluctuate.

To get listed, had a 5400 meter high mountain first paragraph of
its own, which the Indians called the "smoking rock" has received
and still the traces of recent volcanic explosions shows.

Dark Caves split its steep slopes.

Since Jose's last journey had new upheavals this barren terrain
thrown at each other, so that it all seemed strange.

He was also repeatedly pointed to the barely discernible Stegen, and
sometimes stayed to listen, when in the bowels of the rock
giants had heard suspicious noises. Already tilted noticeably to the
sun. Great for the sky torn clouds darkened the atmosphere even more.
It threatened to rain and thunderstorms, which meteors in the
evaporation of the water levels are not beneficial are rare. On these
rocks also vanished every trace of vegetation, as the same in the
region of eternal snow ranged inside.

"I can not anymore!

said José and finally dropped from exhaustion order. - Always forward,
"said Lieutenant Martinez with feverish impatience.

A dull distant thunder rolled through the gorges of the Popocatepetl."
I will of the devil, if I ever re-enter footstraps! José betheuerte
. - But now, stand by 'and hasten to you!

"Martinez warned him with a harsh voice. He forced Jose, staggering to
go further." And not a human soul that could lead us!

growled the Mastwart. - the better, said the lieutenant. - you know at
least not in Mexico that year against thousands murderer push their
craft and that these areas are not exactly sure. - the better,
"Martinez was once again 'Response .

Large raindrops shines, from the last glimmer of day lighting, here
and there on the rocks. "What are we to face when these mountains
are behind us?"

asked the lieutenant. - to the left Mexico, Puebla to the right,
replied Jose, if anything, we can see.

But this is impossible. It is too dark. Before us lies on the other
side of the mountain and Icctacihualt im Thale is the very good
road. But if we can come up to that!

- Next, do not hesitate, "José's information was correct. The plateau
of Mexico is in a four-part powerful mountains included. It forms
a wide, oval basin Lieu of eighteen in length, with a width of twelve
and a scale of seventy-two lieu. High mountain peaks, including the
Popocatepetl and the Icctacihualt reward particularly in the
southwest, around the same striving upwards.

Did he even erstiegen high marginal edge, so the traveler will find
no further difficulty.

Already down the soil pathways, and finally leads him to Mexico a
very good road in the direction to the north.

Rather tiresome series of poplar and elm are the kings of the dynasty
of the Aztecs and the planted Cypress »Schinus," which the weeping
willows of the Occident are similar.

Here and there you will meet edited fields or gardens with rich
floral decorations, while apples, cherry and orange trees in the
deep blue sky, a consequence of the dry air and dilute these high
levels, even thrive luxuriantly.

In the mountains echoed with the thunder of terrible violence .

The rain and wind, which temporarily suspended, this only reinforced
the echo.

José cursed at every step. Bleaching and dumb Lieutenant Martinez threw
the only shy, evil glances at his companion, in which he is only a
Mitwisser saw his crime, which he gladly removed and destroyed would
have known. As a Flash lightning tore the deep darkness. The Mastwart
and Lieuteuant were close to an abyss ... to José Martinez stepped
up.

He put his hand firmly on the shoulders and said, "Jose, I am afraid
... - Before the storm - The storm in the sky I'm afraid not, but
the outrage in my inside. - Ah, you still think of Don Orteva ... Shame
on you, Lieutenant, you irritate me laugh! "Said Jose, of course the
laughter had passed when he Martinez 'wüthenden view of itself was
stapled. Again crash a terrible clap of thunder." Schweig' silent,
José, schweig 'still!

Martinez called the Lord's hardly seemed to be. - The night is quite
suitable for Moralisiren!

replied the Mastwart.

If you are afraid, Lieutenant, then you make the eyes and ears. -
I think moaned Martinez, I can see where the master ... Don Orteva
... with shattered skull ... Da ... because ...!« From a pale flashes
lit rose a dark shadow around twenty step before the two hikers. At the
same time saw Jose Martinez, leichenblaß, ruins, dark and with a dagger
in his fist at his side. "What, what is the ?...« he cried.

A flash threw its glare on both. "To help," said Jose was already ...
but only a corpse on the earth. A new Cain Martinez fled with the
bloody hands of the storm there. A few moments later, two men bowed
their heads over the corpse of Mastwarts and said: "That would be the
One!" Martinez wandered like a madman through the dark desert. With
bared head he ran through the rain, which flows into niederfloß. "To
help, to help", he called on the slippery rocks slip. Suddenly he heard
a thundering noise. Stutzte Martinez and heard a falling river. It
was the little river Ixtolucca of five hundred feet below him then
rolled.

A few steps further on the river was a bridge from Agaveseilen beaten.
On both banks by two walls only eingerammte posts held fluctuated
this bridge now spread like a thread. Spasmodic Martinez seized the
lianas and timidly crept onto the bridge. With all the effort he
came to the opposite shore. Then an eerie shadow before him at.
essential Martinez silent and looked back at the deserted shore again
to reach. But here, too frightened him a dark male figure. On the
knees, he worked in turn, the hands from despair desperately closed
until after the middle of the bridge back.

"Martinez I'm Pablo! cried a voice. - Martinez, I'm Jacopo! erschallte
another. - You're a Verräther - You must die! - You're a murderer -
you must die!

"Two sharp blows ... the piles, which the end of the bridge held,
fell under the axes ....

A horrific noise, and Martinez crashed with hands raised high into
the abyss. ----------------- - A distance downstream, where a
passirbare Furth of Ixtolucca was, came to the aspirant and the
high boatswain back together.

"I have avenged Orteva Don! said Jacopo. - And I replied Pablo, I
revenged my Spain!

"This is how first the Mexican Navy.

Both of the surviving Verräthern Spanish warships remained the young
Free State and became the nuclei of those fleet, which recently
Texas and California sea power of the United States dispute could
dare to make.

He looked at the porthole.

"Do you think you could squeeze through that?"

She shook her head.

"I won't leave you, Daddy," she said, and he patted her shoulder.

"I don't think you could get through," he said, eyeing the porthole
dubiously.

Crack! Bang! The panel broke, but it was not the sound of its smashing
they heard. Outside in the alleyway there was a quick scurry of feet,
a shot was fired, and another. Then, from the other end of the
alleyway came three shots in quick succession. Somebody fell heavily
against the wall with a hideous howl, and then there was a momentary
silence.

"What was that?"

It was the officer's voice from the next cabin.

"I think it was somebody shooting," said Lord Creith. He peered
through the splintered panel. The man on the floor was still howling
dismally, but there was no other sound.

"Look, Daddy," cried the girl excitedly. "The boat is returning."

She pointed through the porthole, and over her shoulder he saw the two
boats rowing furiously toward the yacht.

And now the alleyway pandemonium broke out. Again came the rush of
feet and the deafening staccato of the automatic.

"Who is it? It must be one of the deckhands. Where did he get his
gun?"

The questions were fired across the top of the partition, but Lord
Creith was too intent upon the struggle outside. The firing had
ceased, but the screaming fury of the fighters went on. Presently
there was an exultant yell and somebody was dragged along the
alleyway.

"They've got him," said Lord Creith, a little hoarsely. "I wonder who
he is."

Then, as the leader of the mob came parallel with the door, a voice
hailed them in English.

"Don't open your door until the crew come aboard. They are returning."

The girl stood petrified at the sound of the voice, and pushing her
father aside she stooped to peer through the broken panel. She saw a
man struggling in the hands of his white-robed captors; a tall man in
the soiled white garb of a cook. It was Jim Morlake!


CHAPTER XLIX

_The Man on the Beach_


Joan screamed and tugged at the door.

"The key, the key, Father!" she said wildly. "It is Jim!"

But he dragged her back.

"My dear, you're not going to help Jim Morlake or yourself by putting
yourself in the hands of these beasts," he said, and presently her
struggles ceased and she hung heavily in his arms.

He laid her on the settee and ran to the porthole. The boats were
nearing the yacht, and he could see, by the attitude of the Captain,
who stood in the stern, revolver in hand, that news of the mutiny had
reached him. There was no noise from the alleyway nor overhead on the
deck; only the whining of the wounded man outside the door broke the
complete stillness. In another minute they heard the boats bump
against the side of the ship, and the rattle of booted feet above
them. And then came the Captain's voice.

"Is anybody here?" he called.

Lord Creith unlocked the cabin door and stepped out over the prostrate
figure.

"Thank God you're safe!" said Captain Green fervently. "The young
lady, is she all right?"

Joan had recovered, and though she lay without movement she was
conscious. Then realising that she alone knew the secret of the
"cook's" identity, she staggered to her feet.

"Jim! They have taken Jim!" she said wildly.

"Your cook." Lord Creith supplied the startling information.

"My cook!" said the puzzled captain, and then a light dawned on him.
"You mean the assistant cook--the man I took on at Southampton? Is he
the fellow who did this?" He looked down at the motionless figure in
the alleyway. "If they have taken him, he is on the dhow," said the
Captain. "It pushed off as we came on board."

He ran up to the deck, and the girl did her best to imitate his
alacrity, but her limbs were shaking and she was curiously weak. The
dhow was already a dozen yards from the ship, and was heeling over
under the fresh land breeze, her big leg-o'-mutton sail filling.

"Are you sure they've taken him on board?" asked the Captain. "He may
be amongst the----" He did not finish the sentence.

One of the crew was dead, another so badly injured that his life was
despaired of, and search parties were sent to discover other
casualties, but no sign of Jim was reported.

"We can overtake them," said Lord Creith, and the Captain nodded.

"I'll get up anchor, but it is by no means certain we can do much
unless they are fools enough to keep to the open sea. I think they'll
run round the point, and there I shan't be able to follow them, except
with boat crews."

The dhow was gaining way every minute. The white wake at her stern was
significant.

The wireless operator, in his little cabin on the upper deck, had been
overlooked by the boarders, and it was he who had signalled the
Captain back. He had done something more: he had got in touch with an
American destroyer that was cruising some twenty miles away, and a
blur of smoke showed on the horizon.

"Whether she can come up before the dhow gets to safety is a
question," said the Captain.

At that moment the white-sailed vessel changed her course, and the
Captain grunted.

"She is going inshore round the point. I thought she would," he said.

"What will they do with him?" asked the girl, and for a moment he did
not know to whom she referred.

"Oh, the cook? I don't suppose he'll come to much harm. If they
thought he was a man of substance they would hold him to ransom. As it
is, he'll probably be fairly well treated. The Moor isn't particularly
vindictive to the enemies he takes in fair fight."

The wind had freshened and was blowing strongly when the yacht's bow
turned in pursuit of the Moorish craft, but by this time he was
rounding the promontory that ran out to sea for two miles, and by his
tactics the Captain guessed what plan was being followed.

"We shall never get up to them," he said, "and if we do, we shan't
find the man we want."

"Why?" asked Joan, but he did not supply the gruesome information.

In his days he had been a member of the Royal Navy, engaged in the
suppression of slave traffic on the East Coast of Africa, and he had
seen slaves dropped overboard, with a bar of iron about their necks,
in order that the incriminating evidence against the captors should
be removed. You, with your lies and subtleties, Tarumba want, but do
not get it.

Make fun of me because I feel stupid. I do not want to stop. Although
I put the finger in your mouth, bite and you do not shut up.

In future I do not want to be your toy. Who you know, you buy it. I
have opened my eyes. You know.

You're a tramoyana and one loss. And your mother is worse than you. The
last sentence reads Antoñuelo to challenge the wrath of Juana, who was
in the back room of the kitchen. - Oh girl, girl! - Juana said
-. What patience yours! Why endure the insults of this bellota
animal, the mule kicks this relic - Lady - Replica Antoñuelo -
watch what you say and not desvergüence me if I do not want to
forget that I was women and put the pears to room or feathers, as
it deserves.

On hearing this no longer replied Juana word, but rushed on to the
so atrociously offended Juanita intervened between his mother and
the boy to avoid the fight . - Go on, get to the point of this house
and not come back in your life.

For me you died.

I want to forget your holy name.

I do not have to give account of my conduct. Nothing grieves me or I
ruin the shape of my concept. Go. And saying and doing, always
interposed between the boy and his mother, who is suspicious
of efforts to combat a tragicomic, was pushed gently to Antoñuelo to
the door of the street. She lifted the latch, opened the door of his
house and drove to the friend of all life. By doing so, in Juanita's
face showed more sadness to anger; Antoñuelo, to look so dignified in
his anger subsides, not persisted in their improperios, and was
crestfallen and silent.

XXIII at the displeasure of living isolated Juanas added two other
children and not more positive.

Originally the idea was spread that John had taken his pleasure to
be immoral of her third daughter, who called for less work in the
main house for fear that she was Celestina resurrected itself and
attempt to pervert the Melibeas of those houses.

However, as I said, this bad situation was gradually relaxed. Moreover,
they were so egregious and so irreplaceable art and the inspiration for
John to lead a massacre, to make clothes, piñonate, pies and cakes,
and preparing feasts, where people of taste and dismissed the media
suspicions scruples, and putting them to be correct and to look
sharp eye for Jane not to exercise its alleged _proxenéticas_ arts,
calling it continued to work in their homes, and income and income
from Jane, who had fallen, returned to normal, although not increased.

The meditation and austerity Juanita finally took effect.

The idea that the father Anselmo conceived that had managed to convert
one sinner to the nascent and attract misguided Sheep to the
fold before falling between the nails and mouth of the wolf,
was gaining resonance and echo among the common people. Juanita
was, therefore, look, if not without blemish as a dove, as repentant
and penitent Magdalene, not the blame, but the outbreak. It
took more than a year before Juanita, by dint of ingenuity and
fatigue, results so bright .

The rigid doña Inés was more difficult to soften.

I did not want to believe in the virtue of the girl, and I suspect
that it was all hypocrisy.

When they reached the ears of the news of Juanita Doña Inés stubborn
disbelief and suspicion by the hypocritical, Juanita said to himself:
"Not bad tailor the knows that the cloth "and without arredrarse
followed the path that had been charted.

It came into this winter, and Doña Inés all wanted to dress their
children with good winter clothes, Juanita reached high reputation
as a seamstress.

"You had the woman in your hands and you did
not take her."

"If this sailor with a pistol----" began the Captain again, and Ralph
Hamon shouted him down.

"Curse the sailor with a pistol!" he shouted. "Do you think I've been
lying ill in your foul boat for two days in order to capture a
sailor?"

"If you will see him----" pleaded the Moor.

"I don't want to see him, and I don't want him to see me. If you
allowed the woman to escape, you are fools enough to let him go also.
And do you think I want him to carry the news to Tangier that I was
with you on your dhow? Do what you like with him."

He saw the prisoner at a distance--a tall man whose face was
unrecognisable under the mask of grime and blood, but he did not
venture near to him. Mules were waiting for them at a little village
and at the sight of one, more richly caparisoned than the rest, with a
saddle of soft red leather, and tinkling bells about its neck, Ralph
Hamon bit his lip until the blood came. It was the palfrey that he had
designed for the girl.

With no delay the party mounted and soon a string of a dozen mules was
crossing the wild land. They halted for two hours in the afternoon and
resumed the journey, halting for the night in the vicinity of a little
village of charcoal burners.

"You will not come to the play?" said the Captain interrogatively.
"This man is of your race and it would give you unhappiness to see
them whip him."

"It would not make me unhappy at all," said Ralph savagely, "but I'm
tired."

They pitched a tent for him next to the chief, and he was on the point
of retiring, though the sun had scarcely touched the western horizon,
when a diversion came. There was an excited stir amongst the men of
the caravan; the drone of conversation rose to a higher pitch and he
enquired the cause.

"El Zafouri," was the laconic answer.

Ralph knew the name of this insurgent chief, though he had never met
him.

"Is he here?"

"He is coming," said the other indifferently, "but I am a good friend
of his and there is nothing to fear."

A cloud of dust on the hill-road was evidence of the size and
importance of El Zafouri's retinue; and when, half-an-hour later, he
pitched his camp near by, Ralph Hamon was glad in his heart that the
rebel was likely to prove a friend.

He went in person to greet the notorious shereef, and found him
sitting before his tent, a squat and burly man, distinctly negroid of
countenance, and black.

"Peace on your house, Zafouri!" he said conventionally.

"And on you peace," said Zafouri, looking up straightly at the
stranger. "I think I know you. You are Hamon."

"That is my name," said Ralph, gratified that his fame had extended so
far.

"You are a friend of the Shereef Sadi Hafiz?"

Here Ralph Hamon was on more delicate ground. So rapidly did Sadi
change his friendships and his allegiances that, for all he knew, he
might at the moment be a deadly enemy of the man who was watching him.

"Sadi is my agent," he said carefully, "but who knows whether he is my
man now? For Sadi is a man who serves the sun that shines."

He was perfectly safe in saying this, for the reputation of Sadi Hafiz
was common property and he was secretly relieved to see the twinkle
that came in Zafouri's dark eyes.

Upon completion of the function rightly mother and daughter to sneak
back without being noticed and rushed to his house.

XVII Juanita dropped sprawling in a chair with arms. Juana walking,
going and returning to his room in long steps, as a lion in its
cage. - You've seen - exclaimed - descoco more!

Oops ... the mantesonas the pu ... ercas! So even if the ban lasts for
silk, which of them would not smuggling?

Best ricashembras Hidalgo and give us God.

Silk and silk very iban the two daughters of the clerk, but "even if
the monkey dresses in silk, mona stays. That are more ugly night of
thunder.

And where have brought their nobility? Maybe we will not know who are
the daughters of Frasquita, to whom God has forgiven you. She was the
widow of cagarrache mill when Don Andres intended for women and took
the clerk.

And why the woman took her by? To remedy because she had enough money
to close a large chicken pen, and even more with their ability to
avian chickens. Although it would quietly and not spent cock, called
the _gabacha_. How those finger tormentors in touch! To escape
entrecogía as she walked with pliers so that in groping for the
poor animals, and left dozens of aviados, without being any
misfortunes in the operation. Then the barley and put Gordis and sold
very expensive. I wonder if the father Anselmo motion is typical
of so cruel ricashembras. Juanita was soon recovered his momentary
dejection, and said: - Look, Mom, I do not speak of the daughters of
the scribe. I do not wrong.

If you looked at me with shock and nerve was pure dumb. - Well, my
daughter, I do not know what had to be afraid.

At the least not repaired, because it's so chiquituela and consumed,
which seems a gusarapo, but most striking was good. Dressed in red and
so big, it looked like a tomato with huge paws.

And then, what a shame!

Throughout the Mass, her boyfriend was on the edge of it, still a
Jew, as he had appeared in the procession. Good is the nobility of
Pepito, the son of albardonero!

Instead of market as expensive suit, his father had to make a saddle
that will not go amiss.

Although Granada has returned from graduate in law, remains as
a donkey as he was, except that in Latin braying and the long kicks
in accordance with international law.

But in the end, you're right. We should not complain about them. Must
despicable. The forward from the parent's fault Anselmo everything.
- No curse of the father - "said Juanita -.

It is a blessing, a mirror of sanctity. Much of what he said in the
sermon was wise.

And if incurred exaggerations, well I know why. The Catholic Queen
prohibit silk undoubtedly because their time is to understand things
very differently than in the day, and because then the silk would
cost an eye of the face and ruin the country.

Anyway, I do not know why the queen forbade silk.

Is it not true that the ban.

But if it is or is not, what do I care about me?

I do not complain of the queen or the cure. Who is that I complain of
Doña Inés gazmoña liar, the one that has armed me against this
whole gatuperio.

She paid me.

Vote for me that Christ paid And rising from the chair then went
to her mother with eyes throwing sparks, and making the cross for
oneself, said solemnly: - For this cross I swear: I will get even.

She will remember throughout my life and I have been ugly to delete the
name I have. - Yes, my daughter - Juana answered - vindictive,
vengeful.

Nothing more natural and reasonable, but without making any
barrabasada.

And especially not jures, which is mortal sin.

Without swearing revenge, and malice with cachaça. - Loses care.

I miss cachaça. I have more to hide and I will be more hipocritona
that indina. Malicious intent is what I have, my intention is always
good. At this point in his interesting dialogue, both partners
in the street heard terrible roar of voices, whistles and careers.
It loomed out of the window and looked by the lattice.

Barely had time to see crowds of people hurried pass, and an angry
cow, tied a long rope and reece, which threw fourteen or fifteen
young men of the most robust and flexible.

Other mozos spurred and enraged the cow, beaten with cookies and
twinge behind pitacos or with pita bohordos. Juanas not continued,
looking at what happened in the street, because most moving spectacle
offered to his eyes suddenly within the same room.

Don Paco appeared, whom the maid had opened the door with a big red
ball between the arms.

Recognized early on that ball to the eldest daughter of the clerk,
who had fainted and acardenalado fat bump on the forehead.

Cheeks and nose daubed brought in the yellow and sticky substance
to which the flies came. Was not a little early to suggest that this
substance, but then knew they were buds despachurradas.

In a cornet, which he had been holiday groom, wore the doña Nicolasita
and broken noses are not because he dropped them on the buds .
spellbound conversation with her boyfriend, who was at his side,
with the inlay on the head as overburden and almost as nice as her,
and followed his father and his sister, were all on the square,
which is Pepito had wasted holiday sweets.

It had completely forgotten that was part of the revelries and festivities
that are celebrated on the day of the Saint, a bull rope, which
was then cow, as we have said.

After a group down the street where both Juanas lived, suddenly
heard the noise and saw the throng of fleeing from the cow, and not
until then recalled to the danger that had been exposed.

The clerk, without thinking of his daughters, with tails and all,
climbed by an iron gate and managed to save.

The younger sibling, which was very slight, perhaps because they
are so skinny and ruin the meat, also climbed to another gate, which
looked like a monkey.

The groom was very gentlemanly and wanted to imitate Edgardo, the hero
of the novel by Walter Scott, _Lucía of Lammermoor_ that he had
read, but the cow did not understand the heroism and he toppled to
the ground, giving a empellón with testuz.

Fortunately, the cow did not harm either case, because only
called his attention and that powerfully attracted mass and color
that ran round in front of her waving the long skirts.

As the street was covered with sedge and gayomba and many drops wax
had fallen to the procession pass, slid the floor too.

It is therefore not surprising that Ms Nicolasita and would slip on
the floor of snouts. Thanks to two pounds of buds that stood
between his side and the stones are not despampanó poor.

Only it was the bump on the forehead and above. His terror was huge
because of their faintness. There, in his fantasy febricitante,
believed to feel the horn penetrated treacherously sensitive
in their meat, and on the one hand and on the other, and as the terror,
and before the day on soponcio, gave the tantrum, waving red
skirt and called the bull or cow to say, it was over. The strength
of the young men that stopped pulling the rope that had prevented
a disaster that day and that the function ends in tragedy.

Don Paco, who came by there to visit her friends, seeing Ms fainted
Nicolasita, raised their arms and took refuge in the house of them.

When the two heard what had happened, ignoring the anger, mercifully
met with the laws of hospitality.

They return to their fainting victim of the cow, using their noses
very strong vinegar, vinegar watered with the same towels you put
on the bump and was blindfolded with a white handkerchief, so that
seemed a Nicolasita Donna Cupido.

And finally, he washed his face and removed the crust and churretes
bud. Don Paco helped in all this the two women's charities. Scribe,
Pepito and younger sister and recovered from the shock, came to
the door to call Ms Nicolasita, which also restored, went in
search of them, without giving the opportunity or time to come. Perhaps
it was believed that the precipitation in the game and did not enter
the house the other was pure embarrassment; but as Mrs. Nicolasita
not thanked but a very dry, and Joanna and Juanita scales were
both attributed to the disdain and suspicion stupid and reduced
contamination in the treatment of them. amostazada More than ever then
Juana la Larga, exploiting a time when Juanita went up to his room,
talked to Don Paco in this manner: - Sir Don Paco, to spare the
shame you will have seen that we have done.

His daughter from you, my lady Doña Inés, is to blame for everything.
It appears that you have to cajole you, and you want it sucked and
sucked the parneses.

Tired you know this is not true. My girl agreed to the cut of clothing
and some gifts, but we have paid, if not by far as just. The Levite
who takes you well worth making silk that my daughter has lucid
today and has caused all the fuss.

We want much to you as good friends, but you do not want much to
sacrifice for you, whether we will continue to receive a loss and to
be able to give us the place. Juanita A conversation is fun for you,
but I do not want to talk to anything that leads us and that can come
very expensive.

So, sorry to say, and without thought of offending, the passage you
and not to look back on this house, at least until circumstances
change, it is ever changing, and it does not change, you do not seem
ever. Don Paco is compungió and aturdió to hear this speech and
failed to answer. Something stutter, but he left no resuelta Jane
said nothing.

Pushed him toward the door and threw him into the street before
returning to her daughter. XVIII harebrained Don Paco with the
events of that day, and more so with the expulsion of just be, I did
not know which path to take or what letter stay, mechanical and
went to his home to meditate and to make examination of conscience. The
first thing I noticed was that it had been clean.

There was no crime, but could go through extravagance, which was in
love with that girl who could be his granddaughter.

Having gone to his house every night for a few weeks it just seemed
foolish and worthy of censure.

Juanita was successively and sometimes simultaneously, different
concepts, as if the substance of it would be something mysterious
and indecipherable.

Widely recognized that Juanita, if you had pumpkins, it was because he
had not been declared in order, but with his jokes and grandfather
to call the morning that she did not used to hearing him speak and
to avoid the to be alone with him, was very clear that he did not
want admitted lover or boyfriend.

However, this calculation would be instinct or ladino woman to captivate
or entertain you with more vague hope? Also remember Don Paco with the
whisper of Juanita and put Antoñuelo jealous.

If it be Antoñuelo clothes, and considering that as a boyfriend you
should not, think of plants and decided to order by Don Paco, as
the best match and convenience?

If titubearía it between his own taste and what your mother, no
doubt, we recommend?

Whatever it was, Don Paco was stamped on the cloth the image of the
trial of Juanita, and each time it seemed more beautiful and more
desirable.

Well enough that neither noticed it nor his mother had never tried to
thrive at their expense in a sinful and illegitimate. Maybe the mother
wanted him to son. What is the daughter until then wish you had not
shown, let alone search for a husband or lover. He had done all the
progress.

Was all his fault that sparked fury against the two women, which was
not the slightest doubt that era doña Inés promoter. Don Paco believed
then, and it flattered him and made him very Orondo, Juanita, and
you do not love will delight in their conversation, she laughed jokes,
he clapped the discretions, hearing and speaking, was very attentive
and pending his lips.

In that house, where he had been thrown, but had not received honest
and friendly favors in return for which, and whatever was on, the
two women had just received a bloody injury, for which I thought
he must find satisfaction.

Exalted by the brooding, Don Paco decided to go see his daughter,
candor and loyalty to explain what had happened and ask for accounts
of his evil conduct. Of great value was coated to dare to give that
step.

Doña Inés with its severity and its stiffness, nearly jitters, but he
overcame the shame, he was far away from each other and went, with
all the vigor he could collect and accumulate in their hearts, home
of Mrs Ms Inés López Roldan, whom he knew only to find that the
time for siesta.

At home of Doña Inés then ate at two in the afternoon. Don
Alvaro, if not in the field, then slept, and ate and drank more
than enough delicious wine grows there, and that is better than
that of Jerez, with forgiveness is said, tended in his bed and he
was snoring until four or five in the afternoon.

The children were brought Serafina, the loves, and Calvete the other
side of the house, where its noise will not bother with.

Dona Ines was then left alone in its stand or at his office, and doing
accounts and delivered to their prayers, and devotional reading a
book or story.

The cacique don Andrés and other important characters were not the
place to visit or talking shop but by night.

The bad language as they can say they crave, the poorly thought out
can cause the biggest monkey, but the truth is that Doña Inés was
recatadísima and either the father was right and Anselmo Lucrecia
was a Christian, or knew, with prodigious artifice , precept practice
that famous saying: "If you're not a breed, be cautious."

Hence, doña Inés would erect a high forehead and described as brutal
and rude slander the slightest hint that his honesty will dare to
make any deslenguado .

Very entertaining was then reading the life of Santo Domingo, because
due to the role of church that day had not read much of the morning
_Año cristiano_, as was usual, when Serafina to announce that Don
Paco came to visit. Don Paco entry was frank in that house, but
he announced to take Serafina prevented his love.

Just one minutes elapsed between the announcement and the coming of Don
Paco saying good morning. - Morning from God to you, father - Dona
Ines said, rising from a chair, turning to his father to respectfully
kissed the hand and invited to sit, as he sat in an armchair in
front of her. - Blessed are the eyes that look to you - continued
doña Inés -.

I do not know how many weeks ago that you do not put your feet here.

What business will bring you so busy?

What has fallen to you to do that does not leave even an hour or
two off for the night to come talk to me, see me and give me pleasure
that I see you, throw some hands while sitting or having a pleasant
Anselmo conversation with the father and the other gentlemen who
honor my house with your presence?

These complaints seemed loving all unintentionally and as born of
filial affection, but at the same time was a cruel interrogation,
which disturbed don Paco, and that had to make an effort to answer.

Nothing worth dissimulation.

Was required to answer candidly and don Paco, value-arm, he replied
in this way - You're right to complain, my daughter.

You have not come to your salon, what do you want?

Have been chocheces, old extravagance, but I took the morning to go
to another salon more modest and less elegant than yours, and yet,
I confess, I had unique appeal. - Válgame God father!

I had heard but had not wanted to believe until I hear from his mouth.

"I want your people to trace four men who were carrying a heavy case
up the Street of The Schools. They must have crossed the _sok_."

The movements of the party were easy to follow. A native policeman had
seen them crossing to the Fez Road and load the case upon a light car
which had been waiting there all the morning. A camel driver, who had
been resting by the side of the road near the car, confirmed this, and
said that something inside the box had moved, and he had asked the man
in charge of the carrying party what it was, and had been told it was
a crate of chickens.

"Wait here," said Jim.

He ran back through the crowd that had gathered in the market, and
disappeared in their midst. Ten minutes later Lord Creith saw a big
car come flying along the road, and Jim was at the wheel.

"I found it outside the Hotel d'Angleterre," he said breathlessly.
"God knows who is the owner."

Lord Creith jumped into the car.

"I'm afraid I can't come with you," said the police officer, who was a
Frenchman and regarded all regulations as inelastic. "Beyond here is
outside my jurisdiction."

Jim nodded curtly and sent the car flying along the Fez Road. The
tracks of the motor-van were visible for a long way, but ten miles out
of Tangier....

"There's the car!" said Jim.

It was abandoned by the side of the road, and the case was still
intact. Suppose he were wrong, and they were on the wrong track? His
heart grew heavy at the thought.

He pulled the car up at the tail of the trolley and leapt on to the
float. And then he saw that the box was empty, the lid having been
thrown into the undergrowth on the side of the road.

Not wholly empty, for in the bottom lay a little white shoe, and, as
he lifted it out, Lord Creith groaned.

"That was Joan's," he said.


CHAPTER LIII

_The House in the Hollow_


Joan Carston was sauntering behind her father, and had come opposite
to the door in the wall, when it opened and she paused to look into
the courtyard. The first view was disappointing, but the smiling black
woman who held the door invitingly open pointed, as though it was
something worth seeing, and Joan, her curiosity aroused, stepped
through the doorway. Instantly the door was slammed behind her, a big,
black hand covered her mouth, and she was drawn backward against the
gate-woman, who whispered something fiercely in her ear. It was
unintelligible, but there was no mistaking the threat.

Before she realised what had happened, four men, who had appeared from
nowhere, closed on her, and a scarf was knotted tightly round her
ankles, a great wad of cottonwool was thrust into her face, blinding
and stifling her, and she felt herself lifted up from her feet.

She struggled, kicking furiously, but it was futile to struggle
against those odds, and, her terror subsiding, she lay passive on the
stone-flagged ground whilst her hands were bound tightly together.
Then she was lifted and she sniffed the scent of clean wood. The wool
was pulled from her face and another silken scarf bound tightly round
her mouth by an expressionless negro, who pulled the edges of the
scarf away so that she could breathe. In another minute the lid of the
case was fastened on, and she was lifted irregularly into the air. She
dared not struggle for fear of throwing the bearers off their balance.

You still have to go through a bitter trance, and I longed to know
the spirit in you to suffer. GOPA .-- Prior to its abandonment,
before this misfortune I would have hurt the soul, imagination afraid
I pretended more punishment I was going to occur, and the diminished
me of comfort. Now nothing is as dismayed me. The good that I enjoyed
and lost, and mitigates its dejos even sweetens the bitterness of all
this evil. My heart is glass which has an alcohol content and flavor
gratísimo oloroso. The liquor has been poured, but the most substantial
and rich that he is forever in the bottom of the glass embedded
in its interior walls, and cut into the honey ACIB put it, and the
venom balm.

PRATYAPATY .-- I am reassured to discover that the love you have to
Siddhartha gives you energy to suffer everything. Know therefore
that it was in vain that the King would send in their persecution
of his most loyal servants. They could not give him. Siddhartha has
been lost within the dark and impenetrable forest. There is
no longer Prince Siddhartha, but the rough Sakiamúni penitent.
Her elegant costume is exchanged for the dress of a beggar. The
fuzzy black hair that fall under their candid temples, forming loops
Undos and perfumed, they cut him, and sends you this as the last.

The squire Chandac has been entrusted with entregártela, and anticipates
met, if you enter until you leave here. (Gopa does that sign, and enters
Chandac, bringing a plate of gold in the hair of his tenor.) GOPA (
taking into its hands the gold plate and place in the thalamus
.)--¡ many times, loved hair when you were still turned on its head,
he kissed my lips and he touched my hand! Are already dead and
separated from it. You are dead because you have no memory and does
not remember.

I, too, away from him like you ripped it as a flower stem, devoid of
life if my life was not his memory. PRATYAPATY .-- And why not also
hope that seeing him again? GOPA .-- Because the memory is real and
true, and false hopes and misleading, because it evokes memories for
me Siddhartha, love, tender, humane to me, all of it for me, and I all
for it, while I hope Siddhartha denied forever, and now only gives
me Sakiamúni, and later, when Sakiamúni reaches its last victory, a
being incomprehensible to the stars brighter and higher in power than
the gods, but less than Siddhartha, a young nice and love. PRATYAPATI
be .-- But Siddhartha Buddha liberator of men!

GOPA .-- Buddha never be worth what I Siddhartha worth. Denial of
freedom that gives me the Buddha, and have traded in a thousand times
for slavery that Siddhartha me enslaved.
She must face the danger bravely, she told herself, terrible as
that danger was. She had no illusions as to what these two attempts on
her liberty signified. The first had failed, but now she realised, as
she had suspected all along, that the attack upon the yacht at Suba
had been designed for her capture, and was not, as the Captain had
asserted and Lord Creith had believed, the haphazard attack of pirates
in search of treasure.

The abduction had been carried out so smoothly that it must have been
planned. How did they knew she would pass that door? They must have
been waiting for days to carry their plot into execution. And who were
"they"?

Her head ached; she felt at the end of her resources; and then she
sprang up as the door opened and a girl came in, bearing a large brass
tray containing native bread, fruit, and a large brown carafe of
water. With this was a chipped cup.

"Do you speak English?" asked Joan.

The girl shook her head. The prisoner tried in French, with no better
result.

"I can speak Spanish a little," said the Moorish girl, but though Joan
recognised the language, her knowledge was too slight to carry on a
conversation.

When she had gone, Joan poured out a cupful of water and drank
feverishly. She regarded the food with an air of suspicion, and then
resolutely broke the bread and ate a little.

"Joan Carston," she said, shaking her head, "you're in a very unhappy
situation. You have been kidnapped by Moors! That sounds as though
you're dreaming, because those things do not happen outside of books.
You're not dreaming, Joan Carston. And you may eat the food. I don't
suppose they will try to poison you--yet! And if they do, perhaps it
will be better for you."

"I doubt it," said a voice behind her, and she turned with a cry.

A man had come into the room from the far end, and had been watching
her for a long time before he made his presence known.

"You!" she said.

Ralph Hamon smiled crookedly.

"This is an unexpected pleasure," he said.

The appearance of the man momentarily stunned her, and then there
dawned slowly upon her the true meaning of his appearance.

"So it was you all the time?" she said slowly. "And that was why you
sent us on this voyage? You were the other man, on the beach? I ought
to have known that. Where is Jim Morlake?"

She saw his jaw drop.

"Jim Morlake? What are you talking about? He is in England, I suppose,
under arrest for murder, if there is any justice in the country. You
probably know that your husband was killed the night before you left,
and that Morlake shot him."

She shook her head, and he was amazed to see her smile.

"You killed Farringdon," she said. "Captain Welling told me before I
left. Not in so many words, but he found your footprints on the garden
bed."

If she wished to frighten him, she had succeeded. That old look she
had seen before came into his grey face.

"You're trying to scare me," he said huskily.

"Where is Jim Morlake?" she asked again.

"I don't know, I tell you. Dead, I hope, the damned Yankee crook!"

"He is not dead, unless you killed him when you found you had him in
your hands."

His blank astonishment was eloquent.

"In my hands? I don't understand you. When was he in my hands?"

"He was the sailor you took from the yacht," she said; "the cook."

"Hell!" breathed Hamon, and took a step backward. "You're fooling me.
That wasn't Morlake. It was a sailor--a cook."

She nodded.

"It was Mr. Morlake. What did you do to him?"

"Damn him!" he snarled. "That swine Zafouri took him away----" He
stopped and changed his tone. "He is dead," he said. "He was executed
by the crew of the dhow----"

"You're not telling the truth. You told it at first. Mr. Morlake got
away!"

He did not speak. Fingering his quivering lips, he glared at her.

"Morlake here! He can't be here: it is impossible!" he said. "You've
invented that, Joan. I thought he was miles away. It is clear that doña
Inés, who was very high in his mystical thoughts and somewhat
ascetic terms, though more speculative in that practice, did you
read that Juanita lives of saints and devotees and moral books as
_Monte Calvario_, the _Gracias gracia_, _Gritos of infierno_, _Espejo
of religiosos_, _Casos rare virtues and vices and the ravages of
lujuria_. doña Inés aficionadísima was to lecture and to convince
their listeners and critics when dissertations.

If something is hurt by being born of woman, was not able to become a
preacher or professor.

Juanita knew so pulse followed humor, street or not to accept any
course, but something that challenged their theses and speeches
give occasion to speak more and deployed his eloquence, which had
given way, in recognition expired.

So glad to be exalted and the spirit of Doña Inés, corroborating the
belief that she had in her virtue and persuasive in their knowledge and
talent, and making him believe, moreover, that after her, although at
a very reasonable distance, there was Villalegre at all, except
perhaps the father Anselmo, most talented person and knew that
Juanita.

The privacy of Doña Inés came to an end to its height. In the presence
of any person, Juanita was still responding with the utmost respect
and providing treatment _su of merced_, but in times of expansion,
once heard Juanita atentísimamente, challenged their reasons and
ended up giving in to them, Doña Inés, excited, paved so far as to
send that when the two were alone the tutease.

These prodigious achievements of the young patient and cleared him of
course self-confidence and were able to give much credit, she
understood that it needed, but gave little useful material, which was
what was most in need. doña Inés thought that there was no better
or more beautiful pays his affection.

Assumed that the elevation of the soul of Juanita, which would have
been insulting to offer money.

A Doña Inés Ochavo more than he had been given on the wages that
usually won, would have seemed a pittance. It was a delicate rescue
Juanita as a beggar.

And after this reasoning as wise as Doña Inés Juanita but not paid
as who sewed and not paid him, not to humiliate, or which employed the
hours reading books or listening while losing their presentations, it
was doña Inés, by work and grace of the look that was, and was reading
and audience accompanies bucket . XXIV The glorious servitude that
Juanita had been placed if it was not useful, it was extremely
annoying because of Doña Inés friendship could not be more
demanding and more imperative.

And while rebosaba more enthusiasm and tenderness, are more in demand
and also flared up in empire.

There were days when it was not a free or Juanita or hours of quiet
time.

Doña Inés called and he used it for everything. In places, at
least a few years ago, because I do not know if there will be
several customs, never went to visit a lady principal or walk without
carrying a passenger.

Juanita had, therefore, than to read and listen to presentations,
which accompany doña Inés their views and their rides. And when this
is suddenly on a whim to visit or walk and had no home to Juanita,
was to look at it, there being accompanied by Serafina. Hikes in seldom
read or had read doña Inés, but became peripatetic philosopher, to
speak of what nice, always on religion, morality, disregard of the
world, praising the gathering and conversion of the interior and
aspirations to the supernatural and divine.

You should know that Doña Inés had a very dominant character, not
calm or not as satisfying, decide and govern all that is to decide
and govern.

She meant the name that was to receive the baptismal font in which
each villalegrino born, she decreed, after a review of skills, capabilities
and resources, the job that everyone had to learn and perform,
and she chose her husband lived for many marriageable girls in the
village and belonged to families for a title worthy of your attention
and care.

The notion that the universe was doña Inés of all things visible and is
in it and It will support it, was more pessimistic than the concept
itself of Schopenhauer, but the Doña Inés was dulcificado for two
charities and productive powers who were in his soul.

She could be, or was, more or less sinful. I have not come to make it
clear, so that by writing this story going, is likely to leave it cloudy
or foggy.

In any way whatsoever, without scanning the secrets of Doña Inés in
terms of behavior, she said with evidence, in theory, without
affectation or false, had the most pure faith.

With this faith, and to the other two consoles and divine virtues that
are born of it, doña Inés illuminated the world, with beautiful
heavenly glow.

Any moral deformity, any service, any ailment, physical ugliness,
disease, misery, pain and death is robbed of his thought in horror
and bitterness to it that must suffer for the love of God, and fade
and vanish as the darkness of the night when the aurora, in the
hope of the transcendent and the ultramontano.

Doña Inés To this world we live in was a valley of tears and a transient
test site, another essential way for better life. This, then,
even bad, it was never bad, because in it, if he had resigned, the
more you suffer, the better and more bountiful harvest was collected
and treasured fruit that is not corrupt and wealth nobody steals. And
as doña Inés not like being left behind in anything, but to anticipate
everything, and also be important cosechero of those fruits and
wealth, very candid was convinced that suffering or had suffered
a lot and looking to exercise their patience, a little competition
Job and gaining the means to go to heaven derechita without tripping
stick, and it is understood that with God's mercy, to forgive his
sins, if he had, therefore, as I said, I do not know.

The another power that was worth Doña Inés, without study, spontaneous
and simple to launder up to brown the dark blackness of the world
_schopenhaueriano_ concept was the acute sense and wisdom, inexhaustable
source of pure pleasure, with all her soul she was receiving beauty,
both spiritual corporeal terms.

Call me this seems tasteful. Good taste, is usually passive and
sterile. Doña Inés reached in creative activity. The vision of the
beauty created by Doña Inés relucía in the depths of his soul and
created ideal there another universe, similar to the outside world,
unless it all wrong and the entire decline had been expelled. As you
see, no woman was Doña Inés adocenada but memorable person or
worthy of the Tell story, so I am happy to bring me in mine.

Doña Inés, and the pious reader will forgive me if I repeat, despite
their eight offspring, yet very beautiful in the best of his age,
well looked after, fed and clothed.

The shadow of a rivalry that erupted in his soul, day of the
appearance of pompous and unexpectedly Juanita in the church, had
disappeared entirely, with the humility of the girl and submission
with the honor and serve.

Discarded and the jealousy, the mind and heart of Doña Inés gave entrance
frank affection and admiration of goodness, talent and beauty that
Juanita was endowed. There was paramount in that doña Juanita Ines
no warning, and hold weighed. Came to notice, despite the poor pañolito
that covered his girl back and chest, the admirable perfection of
all that healthy and virginal structure. His face and I can not say
more but it seemed to him an angel.

And finally, did Juanita you almost as much discretion, wit and kindness
in itself. In sum, Mrs. Agnes Juanita looked at and studied as the wise
critic, good grammar and better aesthetic look and study a beautiful
poem, or as a great connoisseur and expert in art and studied look at
a piece of sculpture. Anyone who imagine arrivals things at this point,
Juanita could grab the will of Doña Inés and make it so you would
want, but it happened.

Juanita often afraid that he would end the patient, and there in himself
said: "Worse is that it was." In order to understand the rationale
that Juanita had to say who was worse, I will here one of the Doña
Inés speeches often addressed him: - My daughter - exclaimed - there
are the conditions and circumstances that led to influence your
destiny some contradiction that can cause a thousand misfortunes.

For your beauty, your talent and moral elevation of your soul, you
deserve to marry a prince, paragon of all perfections.

By your unfortunate birth, the lowly class they belong to and the
poverty that forces you to stay here, you must have to stay single
or marry a farmer, and rough zafio. If you stay single, you will be
continually exposed to the shot of envy and slander poisoned bites,
and you surround also seductions rude, some of which who knows if
they give in a moment of weakness, because all we are weak, and
none can be sure not to stumble and fall if not a single moment in
the left hand of God and not supported by your grace.

So do not say anything if, moved by vanity or passions and most tender
green of your own years, and blinded them to ignore the ruindad
the subject you love, you marry a man at the end of your class,
with some palurdo of this land.

What a disgrace then yours! Soon came the disappointment! Oops ...
I am appalled to think about it. It would be a desecration. It would
be a heinous sacrilege.

How to deliver both treasure who would be unable to understand
and know what you are worth? In my feeling, it would be akin to
madness to throw bouquets of flowers, instead of barley straw in
the manger of the mule, or the spilling of pearls in the pig sty
instead of a Celemín of acorns. Moreover, my daughter, how many
misfortunes, will be unveiled and not care about you to marriage?

I want to do anything that your husband is poor, and also whether it was
clumsy and lazy, you would kill to keep working, and I dispense
with the ups and penalties that would give you your children, if
you had.

The most frightening ... but I know from personal experience, I
imagine ... horripilo is if discovered in your consort vices and
misery that you hate and who do you like to mess up.

Then come to your mind, ¡diabolical obsession!

, A persistent thought that can lead to greater sins. Figúrate you to
think and be rational and runs as the philanthropic occurring in
turquoise bullets: how desperation that would employ as against Humanity!
So the anger is no less of a wife who, when you become a mother, afraid
that the world has to give as exact copies of ruindad or the perversity
of her husband.

Horrible thought, or inclined to be unfaithful to drag madness. This,
with variations and embellishments, which was said doña Inés almost
daily to her friend and accompanist, setting assumptions, but
without taking any consequences for the moment.

Other sometimes described in dark colors with vivid and corruption
of our century, the low level they were at the souls of the pettiness
and evil world and what is pleasant and convenient it would be
withdrawing from it, since it can not meet any in our noble
aspirations. doña Inés claimed that she had always liked and wanted
to find a holy retreat, but as it was not for a thousand obligations
it had assumed and that it was essential to meet that were unfortunate,
because I had children to raise and educating, and caring husband
to go hacienda preserving and improving in order to transmit it to
those who inherit an illustrious name, which deslustrarían to become
orphans killed by the villain and poverty.

In resolution Doña Inés wanted to persuade Juanita, and I think
that even persuaded herself that he wanted to become a nun, in which
it was not impossible and that was a sacrifice not be.

From this deduction, and finally declare, as a logical solution, which
was Juanita escape the dangers, miseries and hardships of this
corrupt society, which did not deserve to enjoy their presence and
should take refuge in the cloister, while remaining on the land,
as land is not deserved and since they claim to Heaven, no doubt,
was predestined.

Despite the strong and wise admonitions of Doña Inés, Juanita far
more dangerous each day to find the world (damn it was the fear
it), could not persuaded that the company was so vicious and as
bad, or that the love and marriage can lead to enormous misfortunes.

Hence they did not have the slightest inclination or vocation to the
monastic life.

But as Ms Inés him in the head because she was a nun, and a plan
when it was impossible to make less than abandon the poor Juanita
was very tight.

Each time I felt the attempt to shoot and miss everything Doña Inés
of declaring that God is not called by the way she wanted it to be.

It contained, however, so as not to make the Christ of God, not to
lose in a minute it had succeeded in working over a year and not seen
again at war with the constituted powers and respecting all
people and obeyed them. Juanita did not say yes, it's not accepted
monjío, but said no, gave vague phrases or shut down and the head.

Taking doña Inés rule of interpretation to the saying of 'the silence'
, assumed that Juanita was determined to enter a convent, and in his
enthusiastic imagination, it was the saint, whose life was intercalaría
in future editions of the _Año Cristiano_.

Doña Inés gave part of this victory to the father Anselmo I was
filled with pious joy, and even felt flattered that he expected to be
on the life of the saint as the new instrument in order to make
it worth heaven and glorified.

XXV For this is not poised Doña Inés leg of the plan monjío Juanita took
place, and time and gave warning to the rebellion with force enough
to shake off the yoke without prejudicing their interests and
projects.

While doña Inés and felt confessed that he was going to make a huge
sacrifice to get rid of Juanita, the only woman included in the
world and could be its partner in any way he wanted to dispense
with this sacrifice, which would honor among mortals and God would
pagárselo account in heaven.

Persisted, therefore, firmly in his plan, but he delayed and delayed
while it was filling in their details, all in consultation with
the father Anselm.

Dona Ines decided to pay her the dowry of Juanita.

Still uncertain about what was in the convent to be set. After discarding
many, a thought that is in Ecija, whose abbess letter was because
it was where were the famous biscuits yolk imitated by Juana la
Larga.

Doña Inés stated that anyone who had good taste to point acknowledged
imitation of Jane, because it lacked the _quid divinum_ is in the
lawful provision of such sovereign taste, rude, and if that course
material could imagine that the cherubim, where lowered the earth
with a message from above, they will pave the whim or something to
eat, certainly not eat anything else such as biscuits made by the
above tips nuns.

Despite such important reasons, we do not know why Doña Inés Juanita
dropped out of the convent Ecija, and was set to end in the
Comendadoras of Santiago, in Granada, where, if we do not do those
pilgrims and inimitable cakes, syrups are the best of all Andalusia.

While Doña Inés drawn and prepared all this for Juanita, who was declared
protector and director, his affection toward the protected and
disciple grew more and more, giving them rare specimens and combined
in the sacred and the profane .

One day Dona Ines was very sentimental, which broke the combing
Juanita, admired its abundant Undos soft kills hair, kissed a few
times, described the horrible contempt harsh and unclean hands of
a peasant managed to touch and entangle finger on it, and is already
ranked as the cut at the foot of the altar the day that Juanita
profess, requesting that they have the legase her, because she
retained as a relic of the most up prices.

Juanita flattering request is much appreciated Doña Inés, and almost
with tears of gratitude in his eyes, promised that the Doña Inés mata
hair would be theirs when the cut.

With so many interviews and confidences of the two friends, Juanita
was almost every evening at home Doña Inés, not going on your side
or your house until after the time that used to come the lords of
the talking shop.

Some of these saw Juanita in the antechamber, and as there was
no cover and hide his head and give shade to the face with a shawl
thrown forward too, as the restraint and Beaterio require, Juanita,
unable to look away, did not seem sack of straw, and often watched
by style sinful.

Who is ahead in most this was the master of the house, Mr Don Alvaro
Roldan, who was very tempted to laugh. On several occasions, they found
Juanita alone, the requebró more fervor and finesse that joke, and
Juanita, who saw that gentleman under way to offload their bad
mood, he always responded with fierce desabrimiento or bloody joke.

"Has madam had dinner?"

She nodded.

"Yes, I dined on the ship."

He bustled out into the street. Presently he returned with a
diminutive boy, carrying a lantern. Apparently the clerk had told the
boy where she wanted to go, for he asked no questions, leading her
back to the little market place where the bread sellers sat like
sheeted mummies, a candle advertising their wares.

"I want the house of Sadi Hafiz," she said when they were nearing the
top of the hill, and without a word he turned off and, coming to a
stop before the forbidding door, hammered with his clenched fists.

It was a long time before the call was answered.

"Wait for me here," she said in Spanish. "I shall be returning."

He grunted, blew out his candle, being of an economical turn of mind,
and squatted down, pulling his ragged hood over his head.

The door opened, and the keeper of the door scrutinised her for a
moment by the light of her lantern, and then shuffled in front of her
to the house. Before she could reach the door, Sadi, resplendent in a
blue silk robe, was coming down to meet her.

"This is a great honour you have done to my poor house, Miss Hamon,"
he said in English.

"Is Ralph here?" she asked, cutting short the complimentary flow.

"No, he has been called out of Tangier, but I expect him back very
soon."

He led her into the room where Jim Morlake had searched, and clapped
his hands vigorously. Half-a-dozen servants came running to obey the
summons.

"Sweetmeats for the lady and English tea," he said. "Also bring
cigarettes, quickly!"

The room was very dimly illuminated. One electric lamp, heavily shaded
in a pseudo-oriental lantern, supplied all the light, and more than
half of the apartment was in shadow.

"You will sit down and refresh yourself after your long journey?" he
said. "Your brother will be with us soon."

"Are you sure he is coming?" she asked suspiciously. "I'm not staying
here--you understand that?"

"Naturally," he said with a touch of asperity in his voice. "My
wretched home is not good enough for your ladyship."

"It isn't that, only I prefer the hotel," she said shortly.

Was he deceiving her, she wondered? And then she caught her breath,
for she heard Ralph's voice outside. She looked at him in amazement.
She had never seen him in Moorish costume before. He kicked off his
yellow slippers and came toward her, pulling back the hood of his
jellab.

"You got here, then?" he said surlily. "I thought you were arriving
yesterday?"

"We were held up at Lisbon. There has been some political trouble
there. What did you want?" she said.

At the last minute Ralph had changed his plans and had gone on ahead
of her, leaving her to come overland to Lisbon, whilst he went on to
Gibraltar.

At a signal from Hamon, Sadi Hafiz withdrew noiselessly, pulling the
curtains to hide the ugliness of the prison-like door before he made
his exit.

"Lydia, you've got to know I'm in bad," said Hamon. "If what this girl
tells me is true, I've made a very bad mistake."

"This girl?" she asked quickly.

"I'm talking about Joan."

"Joan? Is she here? Where?"

"Never mind where she is--she is here."

"Oh, yes!" The tension in her face relaxed. "How you frightened me,
Ralph! Of course, the yacht is in the bay: they pointed it out to me
as we came in. You have seen her?"

"She is not on the yacht, if that is what you mean," said Ralph
roughly. "She is in one of Sadi's houses, twenty miles from here. She
is doubly necessary to me now. She is my hostage, for one thing.
Morlake is in Tangier."

She did not speak; she was staring wildly at him as though she could
not believe her ears.

"You have Joan Carston! What do you mean--have you taken her--by
force?"

He nodded.

"Oh, my God! Ralph, are you mad?"

"I'm very sane," said Hamon. He fumbled in the pocket of his clothes
and, finding his case, lit a cigarette. "Yes, I'm very sane."

"You--you haven't hurt her?"

"Don't be a fool," he said roughly. "Why should I hurt her? She is
going to be my wife."

"But, Ralph, how can you hope to escape punishment?" she almost
wailed.

"It isn't so much hope as knowledge," he said. "There is no law in
Morocco: fix that in your mind. The country is chronically at war, and
the European governments have no more power than that." He snapped his
finger. "They're so jealous that they will not move for fear of giving
one another an advantage. You needn't worry about me. And, Lydia, I'm
here for good."

"In Morocco?" she said in horror.

He nodded.

"I'm friends with most of the big clansmen," he said, "and after a
while, when matters have blown over and Joan has settled down to the
new life, I might think of moving, but for the moment I'm here."

"You want me to go back, of course?" she said nervously. "Somebody
must settle your affairs in London."

"They're settled," he said. "I sold the house before I left. In fact,
I sold everything except Creith. I want to keep that for my children."

"But I have affairs that need settling, Ralph," she said desperately.
"I can't stay here. I'll come back if you wish me to----"

"You are not going," he said. "Now listen, Lydia." He sprang to her
side as she reeled, and shook her violently. "I want none of that
nonsense," he growled. "The success of my scheme depends on Sadi
Hafiz. It is absolutely vital that I should retain his friendship and
his support. My life may depend upon it--get that! I don't know how
much Welling knows and how much was bluff on Joan's part, but if he
knows half as much as she says he does, I'm booked for the drop."

"You--you haven't killed anybody?" she whispered.

"I've been responsible for at least two deaths," he said, and she sank
under the shock. "You've been living your artistic life in Paris,
getting acquainted with Count this and Countess that--on my money. Did
it worry you how it came, or where I got it from? Not that I ever
gained a penny from Cornford's death," he said moodily, "but I
shall--I shall! That is what decided me to stay here. It doesn't
matter what they know then."

She got up unsteadily.

"Ralph, I'm going home," she said. "I can't stand any more."

Had at the same time, it is understood that in other times and apart,
another character more entrepreneurial and less scary. This was the
respected chief of Villalegre: HE Mr.

Andrés Rubio. Also don Andrés, who never lacked not to talk, often to
find Juanita, in the anteroom, and in the corridors and on the stairs
, in the hallway as she went.

Don Andres had long admired Juanita to the day when it was decorated
so recklessly in the church, and had kept it very good impression.

Not defended the gathering not to contradict and Doña Inés not
censor indirectly Anselmo father's excessive severity against the
luxury of women, but inside there was no malice in what ever Juanita
had done, and simply inappropriate rate of lightness, the mother
was the daughter guilty.

So, Don Andres did not believe in repentance and in his desire to become
a nun. Don Andrés knew the character of Doña Inés and that was evident
by doña Inés, and at first had to Juanita victim of his anger, imagines,
while in the making, removed a sinner, then bartered estimate in
anger, admiration and affection, it was proposed, with the best
attempt hobby and its governance and fix everything, make Juanita
pushing victim to sanctity by a road she had no desire to follow.

Thus predisposed, don Andrés Juanita began by looking at some mild
curiosity when she casually passed around and found herself.

Then without thinking what she did in Don Andres and who knows if the
same girl, as even the most innocent often be guided by devilish
instincts, to render assistance to chance and became the ruling,
while almost every day and going so close to her, or face almost
touched.

It is natural that Juanita does not hide or flee, because she was neither
afraid nor bu don Andrés was not a beast.

Don Andres was a gentleman well educated, clean and fine, unmarried
and had not met yet forty years, and true master of Villalegre, where
it reigned for eight years what we describe as enlightened despotism.
I do not approve or disapprove of here lies the despotism, however
enlightened or mostrame supporter or opponent of the chiefdom.

I take and use the word some meaning, as generally used, although I
feel it contains an implicit insult to the people that there chieftain,
because it is supposed wild, and I do not want to qualify for such
Villalegre. Waste, thus, the implicit assumption and accept the
terms of employment and "chief" and "chiefdom" as the most appropriate
and used to express the condition of Don Andres, and the power
exercised in Villalegre.

He had inherited power from his father and then he had been much
enlarged and improved, helped by the activity and varied talents of
Don Paco, and even by the advice and inspiration Doña Inés, who was
said, and with malice, and simple with applause, was that the nymph
Egeria Numa.

El, before leaving the scene after the death of his father to take care
of the farm and peasant life, disillusioned and tired of the noise
of big cities and their pumps vain, had spent much time in Madrid,
which had their university studies, and some had traveled to France,
Italy and England.

It was, therefore, don Andrés archículto a chief and as there are
few.

And I agree on this with my friend, the enthusiastic young deputy,
said that if all the chieftains were like Don Andres would be great
venture that each village had its chief, all in each village would
be well groomed and better care, would like to walk their rides and
their paths, the teacher does not die of hunger and enjoy freedom
as ordered, that the apothecary could with impunity, as Don Policarpo,
magician and atheist, but why no longer be deleted or held devotion,
enthusiasm and delight even the most candid processions, but they
had Jews, Roman soldiers, with spear and Lazarillo Longines after
becoming blind passage of Abraham and apostles and prophets.

All of these traditional, quaint and artistic expressions of religious
piety Don Andrés loved more that the simplest of all devout people
Villalegre, and its taste is not deleted anything, but is increased
and improved significantly.

This was the cacique don Andrés Rubio, inclined to admire all the
beautiful and candor.

How, then, there was also admire Juanita, bring your left as
unthinking admiration of someone who slips and falls without feeling
a gently sloping?

XXVI It was in mid-January, and did everything that the cold can do in
that climate as benign. Doña Inés chat was more crowded and
lively than ever, especially on Thursdays, the day of grand
reception. In the room had a beautiful fireplace hood, over which, as
well as on the door of the house, relucía the arms of the family.

At home, outgoing and not recessed into the wall, happy with their
view and were pleased to call the hot pasta pomace, the dry branches
and wood of oak and olive.

Abounded there comfortable furniture and never lacked for At least
one table triplet.

Tertuliano journal constants were the father and Don Anselmo
Andrés.

And it was, also, the doctor, and quite old and clad in the old man
of few words, but sapientísimo triplets, which used to make the
fourth in the table when playing doña Inés.

To take the honorable satisfaction, and perhaps to gain some real, because
they played so many ten per one hundred, and he won almost everything,
the doctor violated to the extreme of shaving one day and not
another, and let layer in the anteroom and the hat, without having
to layer on the shoulders, if not smooth and the hat encasquetado
to the eyebrows, as used to come into the other houses where she
was visiting.

So profound was the respect he inspired doña Inés!

Thursdays attendance was much larger and usually have two or
even three tables triplet. Came the mayor, four or five of the largest
contributors and the shopkeeper Murcian Don Ramon, who was the
wealthiest person in the place of Don Andres. They came, finally, Don
Pascual, the schoolteacher, and Don Policarpo, the apothecary. Doña
Inés had shown some reluctance to come to the apothecary, but don
Andrés had overcome, but not before promising to read the book for
apothecary desmandase not leave or escape any evil or barbaric
freethinkers.

Don Andres said that he respected anyone as freedom of conscience
and education, but that if he wanted to enjoy the gathering of the
lords of Roldan, and professors should be paid by the Government,
if they are prudent and sensible, are saved impiedades for their
best chance, in the chair as its gathering of Doña Inés, very
restraint and try not to say anything to offend the beliefs of who
pays and who receives them.

The chemist, who had a lot of wins to go the gathering, agreed to the
conditions, and that was always left free thought at home, but was
unable to leave or wanted to cut his devilish miracle and nail.
long doña Inés was the only woman in the salon was.

It seemed that a gentleman's club with a woman president.

Recently, however, had introduced a surprising new.

The first gathering of the Thursday, and later to the newspaper, attending
another lady.

This was the noble widow doña Agustina Solis Montes de Allende and Water
matron of thirty-odd years, but lush, cool, funny, good meats and
apparently better, and with twenty-eight or thirty thousand on real
income or little more or less.

There was a need to understand that lynx doña Inés, when another
lady who had consented to their places, and even liked it, it was
because he had decided to marry her and ordered her father, Don Paco.

Doña Agustina was so happy unusual in that distinction and so
grateful and submissive to doña Inés, who received no difficulty
in his heart, as the wax gets soft seal, name, image and the affection
of the person who wanted to burn doña Inés it.

And it was much easier this gift engraved as Paco was not only very
of receipt, but had beautiful presence and well-deserved reputation
of being the man of understanding and discreet Villalegre.

In addition, Mrs.

Agustina - and Doña Inés knew good ink - of widowhood had had enough
and have the heart as empty or blank slate, smooth, and wanted to
find something worthy of it recorded.

Perhaps it is to find elegant and composed with care, and even had
gone to several fairs and pilgrimages in other populations, but all
was in vain and had not found so far subject to petara.

Doña Inés expected based petaría you don Paco. And as needed for this
gift that saw the Paco, was talking with her and was very thin,
Doña Inés, who conceived the project before a wedding was not much
engaged in that his father came to the salon, now is excited and
almost sent him with desenfado Imperatori peculiar to it, not leave
to come any night.

Don Paco and was obeyed, so that everyday I saw him enter Juanita
when she was in the anteroom, while Don Paco, disdained and dismissed
did not stop to talk to her and spent long, merely to say good night.

Juanita answered the salute with feigned indifference, but a sly
look at her former suitor, and every time he looked it was better.

The tint of melancholy which was shown in his face made her seem more
dignified and more beautiful. Juanita imagined, boast, that love
him, though poorly paid, had ennobled his beautiful soul and her
features, dismissing one of them vulgar expression used to have before,
when he relieved of sublime love and little ventures, wore his wit
chuscadas saying often chocarreras.

So, not very slowly, but hurry, Juanita recognized that the appreciation
and friendship that had always inspired Don Paco became love, and
love, despite having increased more than half a century their
subject. greatly influenced this increase in the fear that Juanita
had lost his disdain worshiper, that turns out to be healed of his
passion and unfortunate that at long last to cede or insinuations
about her daughter mandate.

It says a vulgar precept: "I do not want to eat let it cook."

But there are hardly any female who meets this requirement when applied
to things of love.

Juanita had not been completed but had not loved and Don Paco. The
console and the bewitched victim constantly take that and see that
heart burn, which perpetual holocaust for the sake of her beauty.

Although she had not accepted the sacrifice, was much distressed that
came doña Agustina robase the heart and killed him. was even greater
distress of Juanita to note that the sacrifice of Don Paco it was
every day more enjoyable.

Temptations often had to stop Don Paco when passing the threshold, being
told to have repented of writing the letter dismissing and failing
to surrender to entrust doña Agustina heart, because she wanted for
herself and take care with gift mime and that no other woman on
earth.

When Juanita was going through the lobby Ms Agustina, who was very
pompous to talk, the blood of the brave cavalry officer traveling
in your veins is bustling all, and needed her domain I had to hold
it on their impetus, not a scratch doña Agustina.

Other times, recalling some trickery and customs which had in its
venture-free childhood, felt the itch to get to that lady and, as I
used to do _IN tilo tempore_ with other girls her age and even
older, skirts and alzarle give a good hand spanking.

But if Juanita was brave, it was discreet and firm in purpose of
being prudent, and will restrain expired. Coincidentally, and although
she had not read the sonnet of Lope, pastoral images conceived
and perhaps to be included as a doña Agustina _mayorala_ or
_rabadana_ leading towards it, tied with a cord, tame it, the lad
Juanita , had cared for carefully, giving handfuls of salt.

     And then it seemed to doña Agustina said: "Let the meek, which
     is mine, let it release and see how it gets to me. That still
     salt the hands of its owner." But Juanita was limited to
     thinking and afraid and remained inactive.

All they had done so at odds with the two projects of the marriage
of Doña Inés and her father monjío it would have been the most
daring rebellion against the tyranny of the absolute queen of
Villalegre, and Don Paco and she would have in danger of having to
migrate, as Adam and Eve expelled from Paradise.

     Moreover, Juanita was so proud that even though you doliese suspicion
that doña Agustina takes Don Paco, did not, calling it, to avoid
going to the point and stay with the doubt that he, not known, could
give in and surrender to another owner.

XXVIIth As at the scene around the world meant that any decree
of Doña Inés infallibly had met, and as reported was decreed that
the wedding of Don and Doña Agustina Paco, who was just not done
something already given.

I do not know how expensive soliviantaba fiercely angry at this and
Juanita.

Still, however, apologized to Don Paco recalling that she had fired
and that he did not have to keep you faithful. I thought maybe he
watched like a prudent dissimulation she noted, and thus will not
forgive Avenio to rebel against doña Inés, who was so obedient that
journal came to the salon, not a few nights, as Juanita found
in compliance with the mandate Paco gift from his daughter, Ms Agustina
to accompany her home, not to be alone with the maid who came in
looking for them and perhaps you will show courtesy and Doña Agustina
galante to doña Inés not anger.

It went moderation Juanita sometimes, but more often lose the restraint
and to put a poison made. then called Don Paco de inconsistent, fickle
and interested in, or seeking abhorrent contempt, and was predisposed,
tempted and eager to retaliate.

Don Andrés Rubio, meanwhile, continued to come every night at the home
of Doña Inés, and Juanita, learned not to big, I missed it looks strange
looks from those that seem mysterious writing, where the person
who has ignored or written idea confused by the revelation that he
reads and where to read the disclosure and cree conceived sweet hope.

From the looks are going to the words very easily, and Don Andrés,
always trying to find a single Juanita, she was approached to go
to enter the chat room and shot to the mouth of pitcher, as his
machine-gun mouth of the god Cupid, a deluge of flowers and a closed
discharge burning flattering.

She, more cautious in talking to look at, and down the side-eye and
does not respond, and respond with diversion, although dulcificado
tempered by respect and affectionate regard for the character that
so many bells could not help but inspire.

Juanita nor wise to disguise what size dildo happy flattering praise
and such were in his chest. - Repórtese vuecencia - said - and not
mocks a poor girl.

What I think I like that vuecencia my ordinariez vuecencia when so
many are accustomed to such delicacies and fine?

Vuecencia has shown such good taste that ... Come on, I do not
believe that I have now ravage the palate. Let me, sir, calm, do not
try to get me out of my boxes.

Jesus, beautiful Dona Ines it would come to understand that vuecencia
walked requebrándome and I heard the decorum that is missing from
this house as respectable.

And with these words or other like that departed Juanita Don Andres
and went to another side of the anteroom. When the Don Andres chasing,
Juanita is fugaba by brokers. Don Andres stop in pursuing to avoid being
seen. Deploring what little or nothing to advance the campaign
had been committed and not wanting to be another Fabio Cunctator
appealed to more effective strategy and was admonished for ambushes
and raids.

Instead of seeking to Juanita in the lobby, waited in the hallway
without getting into the house until they leave for Juanita bedtime
to yours.

Juanita was not afraid of anyone or no one would dare, and was
alone, but the streets were dark.

His house also was not far away. Don Andres did not want to do the
encontradizo; confessed frankly that he was waiting and followed
several nights in a row, though she always repugnant. Staggering art
were used to Juanita and ingenuity and energy that he will deploy to
take off and get to don Andrés, without breaking with it completely,
not to come to blows.

The genius of it, usually cheerful and mocking, and it was easy to
miss him to joke around a lot in those difficult circumstances.

Because, in truth, she did not want to don Andrés exceeded, but
also did not want it to be, and it was hard problem and the question
of miraculous balance without falling or staying on one side or
another, without going as a rocker for Maroma a tight rope.

Each Requiebros, every proposition that he could don Andrés, Juanita
replied with a joke or as an incoherent nonsense, don Andrés, although
mortified and Chafe, could not take it the wrong way and had to
laugh.

Juanita, to be accompanied by Don Andrés, poised pace, and was
planted in four jumped in front of his house.

Don Andrés struggling then enter. - Oh! Oh! - Exclaimed Juanita -. Is
vuecencia the left hand of God? Well that would be funny to play with
my mom tute, which is still awake with anxiety.

How do you want vuecencia, Play of Doña Inés a departure lounge, make
me a mountain line? ¡Válgame Santo Domingo, our patron!

I do not forgive you. - By God, do not be retrechera; let me go,
let me go, charm my eyes. - Heaven and what saint said vuecencia!

What language! That should be "the bad language of the devil", that
speaks of the venerable father Fray Juan de Avila teacher in a book
that makes me see my wife doña Inés to prepare a nun. - And you want
to be? -- There you will see.

It often strikes me that the vocation I came especially to see the
dangers surrounding a wretched creature like me dumb and helpless.

But in the end, though silly, I do not want to be disrespectful to
doña Inés, I guide the best way and I will pay the dowry to enter
the cloister. - And what would thanklessness yours?

What upset me if Ms Agnes wanted?

News had been brought to Ralph Hamon of the successful ending of the
flight, and he rode across the uneven country, a fierce song of
triumph in his soul, his eyes glued upon the white house in the hills.

At last! Joan Carston was his, in every possessive sense. He had had a
secret interview with a red-bearded man in Tangier, and now his
happiness was complete. Sadi Hafiz, who rode by his side, was in a
less cheerful frame of mind. He had seen his cup of joy shattered
whilst it was almost at his lips, and Ralph Hamon had found him a
sulky and uncompanionable fellow-passenger.

"We shall get there soon after sunset," said Ralph.

"Why I go there at all, Heaven knows," said Sadi pettishly. He
invariably spoke in English, priding himself, with reason, not only
upon his extraordinary knowledge of the language but his acquaintance
with the rich classics of that tongue. "You've made a bungling mess of
my affairs, Hamon!"

Ralph Hamon laughed coarsely, not being in the mood to feel angry,
even at so unjust an accusation.

"Who was it came flying into the room and saying that the _basha_ and
his soldiers were at the door? Who practically turned her out of the
house when he had her safe? Whose plan was it to wake up the detective
so that he might be quietened, when it would have been a simple
matter, as was proved, to have brought Lydia to your house? I haven't
bungled it, Sadi. You must have patience. Lydia is still in Tangier,
and will probably remain there for a few days, and it should not be
difficult, if I could bring my lady to this place----"

"If _you_ could bring!" sneered the other. "Inshallah! Who brought her
but me, the Shereef Sadi Hafiz?"

"She is lovely," said the unthinking Hamon with enthusiasm.

"Why else should I be making this journey?" said Sadi coldly, and
something in his tone made Ralph Hamon look round.

"You may satisfy your curiosity and then you may go," he said curtly,
"and bestow your attentions where they are most likely to be
acceptable. Let there be no mistake about this, Sadi: this girl is to
marry me."

The shereef shrugged his broad shoulders.

"Women are as many as beggars," he quoted, and jerked his head to the
nondescript figure that was ambling toward them.

"Alms, in the name of Allah the Compassionate and Merciful!" moaned
the beggar, and Ralph looked at him without interest. He had seen such
sights too often.

"A toothless old devil," he said, and in the manner of the East flung
him a coin.

"God grant you happy dreams," whined the mendicant, and urged his
horse after him. "Gain joy in heaven and the pleasure of the
prophets," he moaned, "by giving me one little house to sleep in
to-night, for I am an old man...!"

Sadi, being what he was, could bear this appeal philosophically. Ralph
turned with a smile and glared into the red-rimmed eyes.

"Get away, you dog!" he roared, but the old man followed on,
continuing his supplications in a monotonous whine.

"Let me sleep in the shadow of your house, O my beautiful bird of
paradise! Give me a blanket and a little roof, for the nights are cold
and I am a very ancient man."

"Let him alone," said Sadi. "Why do you argue with beggars, and you so
long in Morocco?"

So they suffered the old man to follow them at a distance, until the
door slammed in the long face of his horse, and he went, grumbling and
complaining, down the hillside, and later Ralph saw him, his horse
hobbled by the leg grazing in the coarse grass, and a blue line of
smoke rising from the bushes where the ancient beggar ate his dinner.

Ralph Hamon had an unpleasant task, and he was not particularly
anxious to go to it. He dined with Sadi in a small room off the hall.

"You're not a very ardent lover," said the Moor. "Have you seen her?"

"She can wait," replied Hamon.

"Then I will meet her," said Sadi blandly. And seeing the other's
hesitation: "After all, you're not a Mussulman, and I think the young
lady might be reassured to meet a Moorish gentleman and to learn that
we are not wholly without good breeding."

"I'll take you in to her later, but I have something else to do," said
Ralph shortly.

The "something else" was to interview a woman whom he had not seen for
eight years. As he walked into her room, it seemed impossible that
this stout, scowling female was once a Moorish lady of considerable
beauty, slim and wholly delectable.

"So you have come, Hamon?" she said harshly. "All these years I have
not heard from you or seen you."

"Have you been hungry?" asked Hamon coolly. "Have you been without a
roof or a bed?"

"Who is this girl you have brought here?" asked the woman
suspiciously.

"She will soon be my wife," replied Hamon, and the woman leapt up,
quivering with anger.

"Then why did you bring me here?" she stormed. "To make me look a fool
before my servants? Why did you not leave me at Mogador? At least I
have friends there. Here I am buried alive in the wilderness. And why?
That I should be a slave to your new wife? I will not do it, Hamon!"

Hamon felt sure of himself now.

"You can go back to Mogador next week. You are here for a purpose of
my own."

She brooded awhile.

"Does she know?" she asked.

"I told the girl to tell her, so I suppose she does," said Hamon
carelessly.

He had indeed a very excellent purpose to serve. His Moorish "wife"
had been brought post haste to the house in the hills that Joan might
see her, and, seeing her, understand. The subtle mind of Ralph Hamon
was never better illustrated than in this act of his.

He went back to Sadi Hafiz.

"I'm going to see my lady," he said, "and afterwards I will bring you
in."

He tapped at the door of the drawing-room, and as there was no answer,
he turned the handle and walked in. Joan was on a music-stool before
the grand piano, her hands folded on her lap. All the evening she had
been trying to work up an inclination to play, and she had at last
brought herself to the piano when Hamon made his appearance.

"Are you comfortable?" he asked.

She did not reply. He stood for a while, admiring the straight figure
and the calm, imperturbable face. A lesser breed would have shown the
hatred and loathing she felt, but not a line of her face changed, and
he might have been a servant of Creith who had come at her summons, so
unmoved and unemotional was her reception.

"It is a beautiful place, eh? One of the loveliest in Morocco," he
went on. "A girl could be happy here for a year or two. Have you seen
Number One?"

He sat down, uninvited, and lit a cigar.

"By Number One I presume you mean Mrs. Hamon?"

He nodded. She had never seen Ralph Hamon look quite so cheerful as he
did at that moment. It was as though all the trouble in the world had
rolled away from him and left him care-free and buoyant of heart.

House had its own winery and cellar without, but the rest almost
as good as the Don Paco. No groves and vineyards, but had some
ahorrillos, which, as the public voice, spent twelve thousand reais
and iban are soaring, because the revenue was given to a very
reliable, and ten per cent a year because, as was very God-fearing
woman, very close and very charitable conscience, not wanting to
go through shylock.

In its various offices, Juana la Larga earned on average, and estimated
more sensible, about eight real daily, or Tell about three
thousand each year. And this without counting adehalas, tips, gifts
and receiving gifts that often.

It is true that any more and they deserved it.

No one was about to direct killing of a pig.

Salted hams with singular skill. Adobo with paving loins before
frying in lard was tasty and delicate, and had the butter bewitched a
red light golden, delicate perfume and was awakened the appetite
of the best-hearted as they entered their noses and their eyes. Their
sausage, black pudding, sausage and morcones left far behind the
best that this genre is seasoned in Extremadura.

And he was very skilful hand to all that the melted butter until
they got the most Saladito and crunchy chicharrones who have never
eaten.

So the rich peasants and other people off and tasteful Juana is disputing
that the Long was at the house of them to do the killing. Regarding
pastry was nothing less, and most of the year, and particularly
solemn three times, she did not know how to go to a thousand parts
where the call before Easter, Christmas, to make the sweets and
delicacies that people wealthy and sybaritic mandar then tend to
make your gift, for example, the puff and the famous pies with
anchovies and chopped tomatoes and onions that are made there with
the chocolate.

Did, too, as anyone, tortillas and sugar polvorones who were left
far behind the much praised Morón; roscos egg and wine, and many
varieties of cakes and syrups.

Yes Jane had not known much of other things, was reassured that
it was a wonderful specialty pan for fruit, so that in the days
leading up to Easter was no peace at hand or the mind, going to the
homes of older brothers of the fraternities for making spongy flakes,
and the exquisite gajorros pestiños, which deshacían in the mouth
and which gave the apostles, the Nazarenes, the holy king David and
other prophets and glorious characters of the Old and New Testament
contained delicious processions in which there are styles.

Juana was not idle or lacked appropriate skills to use it in the
season of harvest.

His clothing did not have any rival in that province, and the same
goes for their excellent porridge must.

In the fall, because when you give the best results were castrated
hives and honey is fresh, Juana was used to make quince jelly and
apple variety of nougats and piñonate legitimate and sponges, which
were thick and gold grains associated with the fragrant honey or
whipped.

Beyond that, John is available for any single painting or Pipiripao
banquet to be or wanted to give some lord of the village, and during
a wedding or baptism, as a gift to the deputy governor or Mr. if the
bishop himself came to visit the town. And do not think John knew
only make local dishes, but had also imported into the kitchen and
added quite a few Indian dishes foreigners about remote countries,
including the dishes or delicacies descollaban the yolk celebérrimos
biscuits, which were only a few nuns Ecija, whose secrecy is not
understood by traditional art and skill which she had managed to
seize prodigiosa.

Made Finally, several dishes of French origin, whose names had been
changed convoluted by agreeing with the Spanish pronunciation.

For example, the _balsamela_ chops, sole and eels fried with
_inglatines_ salmorejo Tatar.

It was not all that more admirable. The most impressive was that Jane,
about being the wiser cook and pastry chef of the place, was also its
first dressmaker.

Almost always had one or two officers who sewed for her, and she cut
dress with both art and as primary Worth or Doucet the capital of
France.

The most affluent ladies and ladies, lovers flocked to the luxury,
then, Jane dresses for their efforts, when it had already lucirlos a
wedding, and at a fair or in the dance that used to occur in
Consistoriales the day of the Patron Saint.

Jane, finally, was not only wise and active in the arts of pleasure,
but also exercised, but had not discussed or title, or a profession
requires the highest social importance.

Agilísima was peritísima and to help any woman in the harshest of
Lucina trances, and many hoped and handed to her because he never
had any unfortunate creature, and because the mother was not quite
as puny, six or seven days of leaving his care was already standing,
and often went to Mass, and if you had the chance to dance the
bolero.

With all these skills and excellence, the Long Juana could not be
loved and esteemed in Villalegre, getting more severe and that his high
society or _high -life_ would have forgiven a slip or trip that
took in their Mocedades.

IV at the time it will start the action of this true story, Juana
would have completed about forty years too, but still retains traces
of its former beauty, was remarkable when she was twenty, but as time
was very poor and had not discovered and shown his great ability,
not found, despite their merit, to accommodate a boyfriend and had
to remain single. What is , a cavalry officer who came to
those places to buy horses for Remonta, Pretty, and it was very funny
and fun, he fell in love with Jane and succeeded in love. It is not
known whether he gave the word of the wedding or not provided, but the
truth is that the good of the officer had to go to civil war, which
was burning in the Basque Provinces, where he killed a bullet Carlist
to holes the skull and was entered into the brain.

Juana was therefore semiviuda.

Posthumous posthumous or not, was a beautiful girl, who gave the
font in the same name as his mother. The vulgo added after the name the
same epithet, where this girl, who will be the main heroine of our story
became the Mrs Juanita Long.

Her mother was raised with love and care, without coy without
concealing that she was his daughter, which was at that play, where
everything was known, the most useless of dissimulation.

Jane grew up, then, to her breasts to Juanita, always called her
daughter, Juanita, and since she started speaking, a mother named
Juana mouth full.

This was considered a great shame among the people of the harsh place
that cried out against scandal and bad example, but gradually all
were getting, and after a few years nothing seemed more natural and
more just, but Juanita was the daughter of John, to which there
were no defenders, and reasonable, and fervent, that praised the
motherly love and devotion of mother to daughter, and when something
maldicientes were not allowed to compare with other Juana honradísimas
and passers-by who had the impudence to boast of almost holy.

Of them grumbled, more or less foundation, which also had fruit, not
a blessing, which had been freed or sent to the even or the devil
or God knows what other manner.

The epithet given to Juanita Long not only by inheritance, but was
also by conquest.

Juanita, for seventeen years, had both bolting, the girl who was
taller and more slender that were in place.

Some blood warlike cavalry officer had been infused into it, and
raising hombruna free and that he had received had developed their
agility and vigor.

When he was a martial air, as well as funny, like a fallow deer
ran, threw stones with such finesse that killed the sparrows, and
a jump was planted on the back of the mule foal more relic or more
narrow.

And not to straddle, because we do not consenting its natural beauty
and decorum and unconscious, but feel that is more difficult, jogging
and galloping towards the beast, with the heels spurring or whipping
the end of the halter or the jáquima, when it had hair and would
not, without bridle or reins of any kind.

The first few years of mocedad Juanita had been difficult because his
mother had not yet reached the remarkable reputation enjoyed after
that, no welfare and wealth that we have already spoken.

Juanita was never a crumb, but his mother taught him to sew and embroider
paramount, and the schoolteacher, who took much affection, taught
to read and write in their free time entertainment.

Since I was nine years, Juanita was of great assistance to his mother
until much later that was not given the luxury of having a maid.
Juanita neighborhood aljofifaba, washing dishes, some whitewashed
rooms and the front of the house, which was the cleanest of the
population, and even grabbed his cantarillo water and went to the
miraculous source of the ejido, which poured a stream pipe so thick
as the arm of a robust man, with such an abundance of water, that
it was watered and made lots of leafy gardens, entertaining and
delightful around Villalegre, contributing not just to the town
deserves this name.

Water furthermore, it was fine for its transparency and purity, as
filtered by rocks from the nearby hills, and had very pleasing
flavor and very healthy condition.

The townspeople gave him, finally, some prodigious qualities as a very
_vinagreta_ and very _triguera_. I wanted to mean by this that it
purchased in arriero Villalegre yolk vinegar, usually very strong,
filling only two thirds of the cavity of the corambre, and just
fill in the early morning, before embarking on their journey, and
mitigating softened with water from the source strength and pungency
of the liquid, and earn well, of course, a thirty-three per cent,
while the vinegar sold at the same price they had bought.

_triguera_ was also a water source, consented because their rare
qualities, although it was difficult operation and should be done
with great secrecy, that using a broom dwarf palm, is sprinkled
with wheat that was sold, leaving it exposed to the sun dries up.

Well received wheat flavor, and although the outside was dry, stored
inside some of the liquid, and sponges and grew in weight and volume.

Yet another source had merit service and provided another notable
because, in addition to a large iban a pillar to drink and drank
all the beasts of burden and work and bulls, cows and oxen, and
also under another pillar, which used to be watering the sheep and
pigs, filled with its crystal waves spacious albercón surrounded
by walls that hid the view of passers-by, where women were washing
clothes, petticoats remangadas until the thighs and tucked into
knee high water, as there is use, even in the harsh winter.

Luxuriant and gigantic black poplars and pines mimbreras and surrounding
the source and make that shady site and delight. At the foot of the
best trees are poyos made of stone and mud and covered with slabs,
which tend to sit the knights and ladies out for a walk.

Almost every evening there is a weapon and pleasant chat conversation,
with the most consistent scribe, the apothecary, Don Paco and our
priest, who recited prayers at the touch of _Angelus Domini_,
responding to every cross and taking off his hat and oneself.

Around the Pillar chat girls who come by water, each with its cantarillo,
and often play the role of Rebecca with as muleteers Eliezeres go
there to drink, if not their camels, their muías and his donkey.

Also within the next albercón, and within walking distance of it,
where there is a fence or hedge of blackberries, pomegranates and
honeysuckle, which limits advocates and the orchards and on which
is seto to dry laundry, extends and expands the democratic and
popular chat room with lots of talk, laughter, and jaleos romp as
not missing until zagalones never mature men who come here attracted
by the girls, as the sparrows go to wheat.

V Juana la Larga, as is indicated, thanks to its constant activity,
good order and economy, all of which helped her daughter with the
intelligence and zeal, had improved its position and fortune.

He was a hard-working maid, sweeping and scrubbing it, and under
the direction of the ladies cooked well, leaving the free time to
exercise their lucrative trades.

The main motion was Juanita sewing and embroidery, which had
deployed to the superior fitness of his mother.

Juanita did not have to be used in lower occupations. However, now it
was candid for flirtation or desire to look for the gallantry of
his person, wish not to be realized, either because Juanita body
needs the exercise and demonstrate and deploy the power of their
healthy nature, Juanita, yet completed and seventeen years, liked
to go for water at the source of the ejido, sometimes smooth, despite
the off position of his mother and her albercón going to wash some
clothes when the clothes were fine and feared it, or apparently
feared that more hands than theirs the harsh damaged.

The truth was that this albercón and go to the source, fatigue was
more than recreation and solace for Juanita, which the other girls
had fun with their acute these occurrences and happy, made them
laugh cap off and enjoyed popularity and favor among them.

Juanita was already a pretty girl in every sense of the word. The household
chores had not spoiled their beautiful and well-turned hands, and
neither the sun nor air had tanned her skin Trigueña.

His black hair, with blue reflections, was neat and clean.

Did not he or sweet almond oil or blandurilla of any kind, but plain
water with some aromatic infusion of herbs to wash better. I had
picked up high on the colodrillo in braid, which then tied, was contained
in a topknot of two equilateral triangles, which are played in one
of the vertices.

As Juanita said head crazy not to play, "almost always went to the
source without the head scarf, and wearing the primary and the
neatness of his hair and let see how well it was planted on its
head gracefully neck only ricillos often shaded by some to be the
captive Sustrai that the monkey had the longest hair.

Ahead, collected the hair, let see the smooth forehead,
straight and small, and the temples had large curls with sustained
forks callers there _caracoles_, below which had a soft patillita, not
set against the face with zaragatona or quince seeds, as do other
girls, but left to float freely rather vague rings or hang alcayatas
where hearts.

The same freedom that had been raised, and the constant physical
exercise, and in useful tasks, as in games more boy than girl,
Juanita had made, but did not have the holy ignorance nor had lived
with the collection and recommend seeking other mothers jealous,
had not yet thought about things in love.

Was sought, and requested not to requebrada mozos few, but brave
and Arisco knew dismiss guests, and take command respect at bay the
more daring.

Only one slope was known from childhood that persisted in it with
constancy, but this inclination, at least for his part, rather
than loving affection had traces of fraternal affection.

Those who inspire, sharing undoubtedly less innocent style, was
Antoñuelo, master farrier's son and nephew of the chief, who was
in the very humble family.

Antoñuelo was a gentle and robust mocetón, very nice, albeit short-range
and decided to go around, and particularly to admire Juanita, whom
he believed and respected, putting it all by his will or under spell
of fascination.

VI Delivered Don Paco constants and their various chores not thought
about or had not marry a second time, but never had love affairs,
or at least if anyone had, had been so wonderful with modesty, that
nobody had heard of this in Villalegre, which is a inverosimilitud
extraordinary, because in that place person just had, let alone
whether it was of such importance and viso Paco as a gift, that
could do or say anything that is not knew.

To the same thoughts guessed there were disseminated and discussed as
a thinker not think dissimulation, and very much inside. We must
therefore believe that Don Paco had no love affairs, not to be
very light and ephemeral, and even during her long widowhood, had
thought of such a thing.

He had, however, remarkable skill and wisdom to know and admire
feminine beauty, and was already months, almost without realizing
it and quite unintentionally, when he talk with the clerk and the
apothecary and the other gentlemen who had poyos adjacent to the
source, his eyes were fixed with amorous delectation Juanita in the
long run, still used to come to fill her pitcher, and be there to
chat with other girls when it came his turn.

Undoubtedly, Don Paco had begun to feel alive Juanita inclination, it
was difficult to master, but happened quite some time without
external sample felt that, perhaps longing to hide himself for
reasons he gave.

Founded in the very modesty, that he could be a poor concept of
person, found that fifty-three years, thirty-six more than Juanita,
could not love the girl, which desdeñaría or your love interest or
just move to lie.

I thought then that Juanita, although apparent freedom, I was guarded
by his mother, and as mother and daughter lived with some relief,
it was assumed that if it were sinful intentions, they gave way,
but in any case yield Ecclesiae_ facie _IN cured and walking in
front.

The idea of marriage to Don Paco terrified, not because you
absolutely hate being married, but because her daughter, Mrs. Dona
Ines, he inspired an endearing affection, mingled terror and because
it was so compelling as brave, and without would certainly be made
if a fury of Averno stepmother gave her father, especially as bad
position, and seven grandchildren if she had given him, and who
estimated that she could still come into his farm, removed he hopes
to inherit the Majuelo, olives and the house and enjoy life with
his not so little that it was his farm with various arts.

Don Paco trembling of incurring the anger of her daughter, and though
I trembled mostly for the same anger, fear did not stop their bad
consequences. Well he knew that there was no place in a person, or
several joints, which could successfully replace in different jobs,
but the world was not barren or lacking in men of rustic state,
which could be sought out and brought to the place that he would
replace.

Well aware that her daughter was less than omnipotent, because both
powers had subjugated, the temporal and spiritual. The Father Anselm
was a saint and a doctor, and soon she was saying to him, without being
able to remedy a legitimate corollary of the Gospels and the
Epistles. Father Anselmo would be able to excommunicate whom she
sends.

And as far as the secular arm, which was evidentísimo doña Inés you
were subject to his whims and all his weight to crush whom she liked.
Don Paco, in this mood, reasonably motivated, but we can not deny
that he was sweet, peaceful and somewhat weak of character,
in his imagination ahead of future cases, and requires longer garments
Juanita, declared and accepted, saw a throng of evil emerging from the
heart of Doña Inés enraged as new Pandora's box. weighed both these
considerations in mind, which, noting that hides his love was growing
up, tried, or rather intended to flee the sight of Juanita, did not
pass through your street to see it not in the portal or leaning to
the window and not go to the gathering of poyetes under the poplars,
in order not to admire it when talking with other zagalones or the
waiters at the source of the ejido, or when climbing or descending
gracefully, with the pitcher in his hip supported by the cuestecilla
that extends from the source to the place.

They came to a little wood of pines and he brought the horse up the
steep slope into its cover, and, signalling her to wait, he went back
on foot. It was nearly half-an-hour before he returned, and then,
holding up his hand, he lifted her from the saddle and she closed her
eyes that she might not see his face. After a time he brought her
water from the stream, and opening a little bundle, displayed food,
but she was too tired to do any more than drink the cold, refreshing
liquid. So tired, that, when she lay down upon the rug he spread, she
forgot her terrible danger, forgot the trick of fate that had made her
the wife of a beggar and fell instantly into a sound and dreamless
sleep.

Ralph Hamon sat, crouched in his bedroom, his nails at his teeth,
feeling weak and ill. The mad gust of temper that had driven him to
such an act of lunacy had passed, leaving him shaking in every limb.
From his window he could see the beggar carrying the girl down the
hill, and at the sight he started to his feet with a hoarse cry of
rage. That folly could be remedied and quickly.

There was a man amongst his servants who had been his pensioner for
years, an old man, grizzled and grey, and he sent for him.

"Ahab," he said, "you know the beggar who rides the horse?"

"Yes, lord."

"He has taken with him at this moment the lady of my heart. Go bring
her back and give the old man this money." He took a handful of notes
from his pocket and put them into the eager palm of his servitor. "If
he gives you trouble--kill him."

Ralph went up to his bedroom to watch his emissary go through the
gates, and then for the first time he saw the party of mounted men
winding their way up the hillside.

"Sadi," he said under his breath and guessed what that visit
signified.

It was too late to recall his messenger and he ran down to the gates
to welcome his some-time agent. Sadi Hafiz threw himself from his
horse and his tone and mien were changed. He was no longer the polite
and polished product of the mission school. He was the Moorish
chieftain, insolent, overbearing, unsmiling.

"You know why I've come, Hamon," he said, his hands on his hips, his
feet apart, his big head thrust forward. "Where is the girl? I want
her. I presume you are not married, but, if you are, it makes very
little difference."

"I am not married," said Hamon, "but she is!"

"What do you mean?"

He was not left long in doubt.

"My lady expressed a preference for a beggar. She said she would
rather marry the old man who asked for alms than marry me--her wish
has been fulfilled."

Sadi's eyes were slits.

"They were married half-an-hour ago and are there." He took in the
country with a gesture.

"You're lying, Hamon," said the other steadily. "That story doesn't
deceive me. I shall search your house as Morlake searched mine."

Hamon said nothing. There were twenty armed men behind Sadi and at a
word from their leader he was a dead man.

"You're at liberty to search the house from harem to kitchen," he said
coolly, and the Moor strode past him.

He could not have had time to make a very complete inspection, for he
was back again almost immediately.

"I've spoken to your servants, who tell me that what you have said is
true. Which way did she go?"

Hamon pointed and the Moor gave an order to his men. One of the
horsemen fired in the air. A second and a third shot followed.

"If that does not bring him back we will go and look for him," said
Sadi grimly.

"So far as I am concerned," Ralph shrugged his shoulders--"you may do
as you wish. My interest in the lady has evaporated."

He was not speaking the truth, but his manner deceived the Moor.

"You were a fool to let her go," he said more mildly.

"If I hadn't let her go, you would probably have persuaded me," said
Hamon, and Sadi's slow smile confirmed his suspicion.

A minute later the party was riding down the hill, scattering left and
right in an endeavour to pick up the trail of the beggar and his wife.
Does not penetrate, however, what may be this, but the motives that
lead you to it are generous, admirable, worthy of your soul. Siddhartha
mine, even if you wear wrong direction, is so noble that the
momentum She has launched, which, I feel it with pride, future
generations for centuries and centuries and will bless ensalzarte
as the most glorious of men.

Thousand tribes, nations and peoples will learn your fingerprints and
your doctrine. For the love of my wife, my love for our son, I would
oppose retenerte your company and by my side, but the love of your
glory, which will reflect on me and your son, do not prevent me to
your party although the stop was at my fingertips. Go, but take me
with you. Let me first share your work and then you win.

     Siddhartha .-- No way. I just starting. GOPA .-- My heart gets rid
     of pain, but I devoutly resigned. And when either of mine, has
     to be your game? Siddhartha .-- At the moment, oh beautiful
     granddaughter Iksvacú! We are in the middle of the night.
     Look at the clear sky. You see that light shining in the East?
     It's my star, which rises to illuminate and guide me. Chandac,
     my squire, has harnessed the horses. Those who hold the
     eastern Capilavastu door, where my peers and star, are won and
     leave me leave. Left in peace, O Gopa! GOPA .-- Oh Lord my
     soul! Your slave for you groan while lodgest abandoned.
     He locked me up
     in the kitchen under the guardianship of a Moor whom he had
     brought back from Tangier with him. An attempt has already been
     made, and I fear the next----_

Here the writing ended abruptly. He rolled up the damning charge and,
returning it to his pocket-book with the other contents, slipped it
into his inside pocket again. And, as he did so, he recalled Jim
Morlake's description. The monkey's hand was in the gourd and he had
come to the place where he could not release the fruit.

In the meantime, one of Sadi's men had picked up the track of
footprints, and Sadi and two of the party had reached the edge of the
stream.

"Leave your horses and come on foot," he ordered.

They followed the course of the stream downward until it was clear to
the shereef that they could not have gone in that direction. From
thereon, he had a view of the country. Moreover, they passed a
particularly shallow stretch with a sandy bottom and there were no
marks of hoofs.

"We will go back," he said, and led the way.

An hour's walk brought them to a place where the stream ran between
high banks, and here the Moor's quick eyes saw the new marks of
horse's feet, and he signalled his men to silence. With remarkable
agility he ran up the bank and crept forward....

She agreed not to snub, but instead has given me a pledge of more
value, no one can say that my dress cost.

Juanita dress right or wrong with winning work so honest and lawful,
and not valid on the day against the pragmatic silk or any other
sumptuary laws, not just silk, but of gold and pearls can dress if
Juanita have money to buy clothing and if it seems to spruce up
with him. - If you respect that I have no ties to my tongue - Dona
Ines replied - I dare say you are crazy tie.

How to defend the scandal, the campaign has given the girl, suddenly
transformed into a princess, as in fairy tales?

The joke has it taken you to the Levite.

Already charged with the usury.

The tips of her black pudding and sausage and her mother she does
not pay enough for the knights to the Levites, and to keep oneself
up with rich dresses and shawls of madrone, as they say in Madrid
that the bulls are going to the ladies of high and forelocks Majas
the course.

On less thought, not only to go so pompous, but to eat, enough money
to John, and then go to you and others to withhold, and may not
give the Levites instead, quite knows what the devil will , it does
not already have. - I have not nor will it be given - said Don Paco,
and losing their temper -.

What I can assure you is that if Juanita wants to give me your hand,
I'll accept it gladly, and you'll be respected as mothers. - Jesus,
Mary and Joseph!, I respect that arrapiezo ....

I would face in shame if you did such nonsense. - Well, that depends
only on Juanita does not. And because it is possible, but we fight
to continue this conversation, I left you. Bye, kid. - Father, you
go with God and He will not continue to enlighten you so pitifully
unreasonable.

Don Paco left in haste and very angry home of her daughter, and she
was no less furious.

XIX The sermon Anselmo said of the father was and is all over the
place to the detriment of both Juanas. Nobody got up for them, except
the teacher, that night in the box.

The box was and is still in some places, the Casino and the Ateneo
primitive and pure. In general, this was the case in Villalegre, Box
was relatively comfortable and spacious room, behind the pharmacy. They
read the newspapers, smoking, talking and playing are malilla, the
triplet, and the truquiflor tute and perhaps chess, when one of
the dominoes and checkers.

Don Policarpo, the apothecary of Villalegre, was very well the
honors of the establishment, which implies almost every character
of the place, even though women, who were devout and apothecary's
abominable, because far from being in the odor of sanctity, reached
the unenviable reputation as infidel and materialistic.

I had always remained a bachelor, had a tongue like an ax, which
destroyed the reputations and evil in his face, in his lively eyes and
a little cross-eyed, in his aquiline nose and his mouth and mocking
sumida revealed a sharp and evil mischief. In the peculiarities
wonderful people concerned about their doctrines and scientific
powers, many arguing that not everything he did and said was natural,
but in large part inspired by and with the aid of the devil,
therefore, to talk about it own, he stated that, even if Inquisition
no longer live, because he would have burned alive.

It was his dogma that all things are the same, and that the difference
in them is more apparent than real and more shallow to deep. Produces
the difference of what a force that lives and shake them, hiding
the root of their being, and that according to their various effects
and operations and is called heat and light, and electricity and
magnetism, and where changes removals and life and death.

This force was the god of Don Policarpo. He boasted of being possessed
and being energúmeno. To do miracles for his manner and his name did
not stick Don Policarpo virtues, but in contrast, had a reece, and
long pointed nail in the little finger of the hand right, which one
would ordinarily used as toothpicks.

The ladies were filled with terror when the veto, as if seeing the
face of Satan.

It was said that the apothecary and magnetized, and sleep under their
will on the people, by firing the nail magnetic fluid, and is
electrified throughout, quickly scrubbing their feet against a wolf
skin, nail and threw it in a jet or plume sparks of blue and bright.

And someone added, vowing to have seen that just bring the nail
when he was charged and well-saturated with electricity, lighting
a lamp or a shot cañoncito very cuckoo that was used for this
experiment.

He turned in a flash to confront the aged beggar and dropped his hand
to the folds of his _jellab_.

Joan Carston stood, rooted to the spot, staring at the newcomer. She
looked at the hideous face of Abdul Azim, but it was the voice of Jim
Morlake that had spoken!


CHAPTER LXII

_The Escape_


Two shots rang out together, and Sadi Hafiz went to his knees with a
groan and fell sideways.

"Get on to that horse, quick," said Jim, and almost threw her into the
saddle.

He was up behind her in a second.

"Jim!" she whispered, and the arm that encircled her increased its
pressure.

Burdened as he was, the big horse strode out freely, and Jim, looking
over his shoulder, saw that the white figures that had followed Sadi
from the camp had halted to succour their fallen chief.

"We've got ten minutes' start of them, anyway," he said, "and with any
luck we ought to miss them."

Wisely, he left the direction to the horse, who would know the
country, and whose eyes would detect the pitfalls and barriers in
which the plain abounded. There was no sign now of pursuers, but Jim
was without illusions. If Sadi Hafiz was capable of issuing orders,
there would be no dropping of the pursuit. The mayor and councilmen,
rural farmers, usually those who don Andrés Rubio was elected or
appointed, you were under and devout, and did not understand the
laws or regulations on administration and finance, Don Paco was the
one who spread the contributions and what it all.

While taking care of the cleanliness of the village, the conservation
of Consistoriales houses and other public buildings and the supply
of good order and the carnage and the markets of grain, vegetables
and fruits, and was so hearty and dicharachero that reached enviable
favor among gardeners and greengrocer, who used to send her home,
for your gift, depending on the season, and drained figs and tender
lettuces and exquisite plums and melons greengages or more aromatic
and sweet.

The butcher was with gift Paco as a pinion, and it sure is perniquebraba
any becerrita and had to kill her, which is the brain, language
and the very best of the spine is not present in another table but
the Don Paco, except in that of her daughter, whom we will talk
later.

Astonishing was Don Paco activity, but far from sterile.

With so many trades flourished and thrive it was a blessing from
heaven, and although it had started its own mocedad by no more than a
day and the night had ended by owning good properties. Hazas had
two in the ring, three bushels each. The other had only five and a
bushel Celemín, but as there was in the old cemetery at the site,
the land was very generous and chickpeas produced more and more
thick and buttery soft to be eaten throughout the province, and
Balinese were compared with those held by Alfarnate chickpeas.

He also possessed the gift Paco Aranza fifteen of olive trees which
were not any cantacucos but very lush and carrying almost all the
years of abundant harvest olives, and the famous Gordal, he did
dress very well, and that, according to experts in this area, outbid
the tastiest olives Cordova, as in _The gatomaquia_ held by the
Phoenix Ingenios, Lope de Vega.

Finally, don Paco owned the house where he lived, where no shortage
of wine jars with ten of Best of Lucena, and a small winery with
over twenty candiotera pipas between young and old.

To fill the jars and pipes was Don Paco owns a beautiful Majuelo,
which was almost six bushels of extension, and although their product
was not enough, he used to buy time for the grape harvest, or rather
to buy grapes, which in pisaba the winepress of his house.

This was the good of the people, where there were many barnyard
fowl, and courtyard with paved and filled with pots of basil, sharp,
evónimo, miramelindos, dompedros and other flowers.

It is clear that for rural jobs the winery's wine and racking up
the oil men and beasts by entering a port that was false in the
corral.

CHAPTER LXIII

_The End of Sadi_


They brought Sadi Hafiz to the house on the hill and the journey was a
long one for a man with a bullet in his shoulder. The first news Ralph
had of the happening was a thundering knock at the gates which roused
him from a fitful sleep and sent him to his window.

The gates were locked and barred and could not be opened without his
permission. He saw the gleam of lanterns outside, and presently a
shrill voice called him by name and he knew it was Sadi. Hurrying
downstairs, he joined the suspicious gatekeeper, who was parleying
through the barred wicket.

Mystical union, in vain that I was certainly unhealthy illusion.

The indefinable being, with whom I thought to join, and from which
everything that is said is denied, it was not: it was nothing.

My identification with the alleged death was selfish.If that pistol had
not caught in the folds of my cloak he would have been in hell
to-night!"

