JOHN L. STODDARD'S LECTURES, VOLUME 10 (of 10)

   Southern California
   Grand Cañon of the Colorado River
   Yellowstone National Park

Illustrated and Embellished with Views of the
  World's Famous Places and People, Being
    the Identical Discourses Delivered
        during the Past Eighteen
          Years under the Title
             of the Stoddard
                 Lectures

Boston
Balch Brothers Co.
Wehmüller not
understand the farmer, who assured
him that he, with the
same tinny rifle on his back and the same long stick in his hand,
according to the Hungarian border, led, at the right time, because
shortly afterwards the route from Pestkordon closed was the man
with him a lot of single incidents of the trip told of how, as the
whole notion Wehmüller nothing.

However, since finally the farmer a small image hervorzog with the
words: "Have your graces me this picture that in your rifle was no
place, not to wear, and have it your grace not in a hurry forget
the trip?"

-- Wehmüller took the picture with ferocity.

It was the picture of his wife, as he himself painted, so the name
Wehmüller was signed.

He did not know where he was the head. Soon he saw the farmer soon
Lury, and soon the picture, "Who gave you the picture?" He went to the
farmer. "Your grace itself," he said, "They wanted to chair after
Weißenburg to your loved ones, said your grace, and the messengers
pay me your graces are also guilty remained ."--" That is lies!"
Wehmüller screamed. "It is the truth!" said the farmer. "It is not
the truth!" Lury said, "because this gentleman has been here four weeks
not weggekommen and has worked with me in a room asleep." The farmer
wanted to but his claim was not off and penetrated to the payment of
wages or messengers to the return of the portrait, which was his
pledge, and he, if he does not pay to do Schimpf wanted.
Once, doubtless, an enormous lake was held encompassed by these
giants; but, taking advantage of some seismic agitation, it finally
slipped through their fingers to the sea, and now men travel over its
deserted bed. Sometimes these monsters seemed to be closing in upon
us, as if to thwart our exit and crush us in their stony arms; but
the resistless steed that bore us onward, though quivering and
panting with the effort, always contrived to find the narrow opening
toward liberty. Occasionally our route lay through enormous fields of
cactus and yucca trees, twelve feet in height, and, usually, so
hideous from their distorted shapes and prickly spikes, that I could
understand the proverb, "Even the Devil cannot eat a cactus."

[Illustration: LIFE ON THE DESERT.]

[Illustration: THE DESERT'S MOUNTAINS.]

[Illustration: DESERT VEGETATION.]

As the day wore on, and we were drawn from one scene of desolation to
another, I almost doubted, like Bunyan's Pilgrim, whether we should
ever reach the promised land alive; but, finally, through a last
upheaval of defiant hills which were, if possible, more desolate and
weird than any we had seen, we gained the boundary of California and
gazed upon the Colorado River. Devillier said now the Croats: "So that
you no longer my faith in the Warlock Mores in Cat Form doubt I want
you to tell a story in which I myself have helped a few hundred to
kill magicians." - A few hundred "cried several in society." Yes!
"Devillier said," and I just want to safely conjure up as our friend
the musical Cats Congress.

"Devilliers story of the witches in the oyster rock several years
ago because I, as a lieutenant in to Dunkirk Garrison was, I
enjoyed the intimate friendship of my majors, an ancient Gascony. He
was a great lover of oysters, and his body was one of the major benefit
of a large oyster rocks, behind a grove like a half a rifle shot away
from the shore into the lake was so that it is low tide in the dry
foot could reach to the fresh oysters from the rocks to beat. Since
the major time ago had noticed that in most oysters are revealed
nothing was inside, he could not think of who he the oysters from
the shells away, and he asked me to him in one night, armed with
rifle shooting, after the oyster rocks to accompany to the thief
to eye. We had scarcely entered the small trees, as we have a terrible
howling cats after the lake cried, and how great was our astonishment
when we rock with a plethora of cats were occupied, which, without the
authority to move the piercing shrieks Jammer ausstießen. I wanted to
shoot it, but my friend warned me, it certainly a society of wizards
and witches, and I was shot by her revenge on us could. I laughed
and ran with saber drawn after the rock out, but how was I felt,
because I cut off the beasts, and yet not one of the office
moved, I threw my coat on an order ungekratzt from the Earth to be
able to lift, but it was impossible to distinguish them from
the body to bring it was like angewurzelt. As I ran through the freezing
cold back, and I hurried to my friends back to me because of
my daring expedition efficient ausschmälte. We stood still, until
the flood occurred, to see how the warlock is if the water is poured
forth upon them, but because we went as our Croatian friends,
when the church bell on the Katzenpickenick oak broke. Hardly the
first wave rolled over the rocks, as the whole society with such
witches vehemence against the shore and crashed off on us that we are
in the greatest hurry heels measures. On the other morning
went to the old Major to the governor of the fort, and showed him how
the whole fortress full of witches and wizards had their meeting
at his oyster, he had discovered rocks. The governor laughed it off
and initially began when he seriously coveted troops, these magicians
in the next night to shoot at his Reason to doubt. The Major put on
me as a witness, and I confirmed what I saw, and the miraculous
appearance of immobility of cats. The Governor was the thing
incomprehensible, and he promised in the next night to investigate
itself. He had all the guards hint before it in the night with
us and hundreds of man voltigeurs ausmarschierte, no consideration to
take when they heard shooting. As we are approaching the wood, sounded
the same cat yelling, and we from the shore had the same
odd-looking court drama: the living rock howling in the moonlight
on the vast, unlimited sea surface. stutzte The governor, he
wanted out, but the Major gave him anxious to return, now the governor
had the hundred men from the land side the rocks and surrounded two
full cargoes under the Warlock, but none of it most of the body,
although a lot of votes among them began to speak. In that surprised
the governor could no longer hold, he went to the rock, and we
followed him he tried, one of the cats away, but they were all
like to grow, because I discovered that they were all with one or
more paws, some also with its tail firmly in the closed oysters
were pinched.

As I indicated, had the soldiers approached and they all do.

But as the tide is approaching, we pulled back to land, and all the
cats Assembly, which yesterday so vividly before the first wave had
fled, was now the flood doornail shore, which we, the good Major
heartily laugh with his witches, marched back home.

The case, however, was as follows: The cats that love everything
about oysters, they moved with the paws from the shells, and were
not longer than until the closing of the shells were festgeklemmt
where they are so long with Lament maintained until the oysters,
inundated by the flood, again opened their prisoners and dismissed,
and I believe in strict examination and less imagination would our
friend on his adventure as well cats fish thieves louder as we
oyster thieves, have discovered.

Baciochis tale of hunting wild After the elucidation of this event
is the story of the Croatians in their very Schauerlichkeit had
eased, it was on all sorts of hunting ghosts to speak, and Lindpeindler
asked whether a company in the perhaps the wild hunters ever seen
or heard?

Said the fireworks: "I came so close that I bare in the eyes saw,
and when the Virgin Nanny is brave, and the whole society Ehrsam
least as long as it wants to believe until the story ends, I will
they tell. " Nanny said: "Tell only Baciochi, you know my temperament
and it will not make too much ."--" Tell You", was Devillier On;
"if we are even at the end of history to explain a lie, so to give
you up previously believed. " And soon all voices were united, the
fireworks as to what all invited to participate in their places to
set, and his narrative a peculiar theatrical character to know.

All sat on the spot, he made a break, put a pipe tobacco, suggesting
that with his fist so unexpectedly strongly on the table that the
lights went out and all the loud aufschrien.

"My fireworks always start with a cannon shot at," he said, "Do not
scare!"

and in the same moment, he burned several Sprühkegel, which he made
powder and vergoßnem wines in the silence was kneaded, and said:
"Imagine that you would be my great fireworks in Venice, which I
am Napoleon's coronation days there burned down.

It I had a few grains of gunpowder prophetic in the mass came to
be, in short: as the throne and the crown and the large Nota
bene, NB, Napoleon Bonaparte's signature, in full brilliant fire,
hundreds of thousands of revelers and rocket umzischt, barely a
quarter of an hour from a high generals and the esteemed audience
beklatscht had started my fireworks, a little to feel chilly, it
burst and hissed some too early and too late from a good batch
of individual wheels and sun burned me down in a barn in the process
lost the roof. The show was so terrific is created that this whole
art-attached barn fire for his triumph was that we clapped, and
I paukte and trumpets; quickly let all my other pieces in the gaps and
provide new losfigurieren. But the devil drove me to the tail over it,
and the whole pie flew with a great crackling at once into the air,
which drove people apart awful, scaffolding collapsed, all fences were
down, the crowd fell under the gondola, the gondola leader fought
from the citizens flogged with French soldiers, my fund has been
looted, there was a confusion, as if the devil drove the pigs
and the sea rushed on. Our one knows his craft, one is taken to
the like, my personal retreat was covered. I had nothing back than
all my debts, my reputation and my half-thumb. My blessed wife, the
rock on which his body burned, pulled me into the gondola of her
brother, a ship, and brought me to a place of refuge, to which we
the following morning, leaving the city .

When we reached the mountain, we are approaching us astray on a
chapel, where my favorite Gesellen Martino had agreed again to meet,
if we by any misfortune should be blown apart. My good wife had
a piece of wax from a torch, the when the corpse of our blessed daughter
was burned in the pocket and used when they sewed their twine to
wank; wax from this she had during our journey, the figure of a
thumb kneaded and hung the same, together with a rosary of red and
black berries that they also had very good threaded, the
little Infant Jesus in the womb of the Virgin Mary in the chapel as
a victim to the hands, and we both prayed from the heart that
my thumb to heal and we are happy over the border into the Austrian
wish . We were still on his knees, when I call the voice Martinos
heard: "Sia benedetto il San Marco!"; as I screamed back: "E la
Santissima Vergine Maria!" as we had agreed, and ran with my wife
before the chapel. Da Martino joined us in a great elevator
opposite. He had the fireworks at the sea god Neptune and presented
in his full costume heels; that he had the reed belt around the waist
or a doublet of Seemuscheln of rushes and a wig on his long beard was
from seaweed, on the shoulder he carried the trident, on which he
was a studious brown bread and three woodcock fat that he got along
with the nest, had gespießt. After a warm hug, he told us how happy
he his clothes had rescued the riders were knitting him on the track,
since he is in a reed swamp hidden, and its reed belt made him not
as noticeable. When he was lying dormant vorüberreiten they can have
the three snipes carelessly beside him in her nest is established,
and he did it by hand all three measures. The bread he had Contrebandier
by a few pennies to buy him at the same time, the nearest hostel
to the height of the mountains described, but just not too favorable
for the entire forest is not quite geheuer, the savage hunters
prefer to care for and grade in this inn lodging to keep.

"Well because!"

I said, "we have good company tonight, I have long liked the guy
even seen his Jagdzug quite naturally in a fireworks display to be
able to."

My wife Marinina but which, in order to miss nothing, felt everything
, made a sour face at the hostel.

That could not help but we had to choose the way he was quite remote
and secure and a Schleichweg the Contrebandiers with which Martino
had some acquaintance. The night broke in, a storm is approaching,
and we had us on the way. Martino made our journey a little funny,
he handed over my Marinina the woodcock, and said: "plucks them on,
so that we in the hostel the wild hunters soon a roast can
forward, "and now he marched with thousands of great fun in his
habits, like a vazierender Waldteufel provided. I followed him on
the narrow forest paths, and had half my thumb that made me not
a little hurt, mostly in the mouth, and pulled behind me - that
God mercy! - My blessed Marinina and plucks at the woodcock singing
and praying. on the right hip was her quite a hole in the rock is
burned, and she was ashamed to precede that Martino, his wit
in all nests auszubrüten maintained at their nakedness does not
want to take offense. The path was steep, scary and uncomfortable,
and the storm rushed through the forest, it flashed in the distance,
Marinina suggested a cross on the other. But the fatigue vertrieb
their fear of the wild more and more hunters, from which the maddest
Martino stories submitted. "It's good," he said, "that we ourselves
have food with us, because if we would eat with him, we should easily
with one leg or with a hung immarinierten Horsehead be entertained.
FASSET courage Marinina woman, looks at me only to worse he can not
look! "In such discussions, we had the mountain height and erstiegen
was a pretty piece of road in the wild, dark forest stage,
because we heard heinous cats howl and soon came to a hut, with straw
and covered travel ; old rags hung on the fence, and a pole was a
large porcupine on the door herausgesteckt as a shield. "Here we
are," said Martino, "as it believes that this elegant guest house
hot ?"--" To porcupine!" I said .- "No!" Martino said, "it has several
names, some call it the devil's toothbrush, the devil's fur cap
andre, andre even his trouser button." We laughed at the clownish
name.

The cat sat on the doorstep on a broken chicken basket, made a hump
against us and a pair of fiery eyes and listened not to solfeggieren.
In the home, but it rumpelte as in a Raspelhause and empty stomach.
Now beat Martino with his fist against the door and shouted: "Hallo,
Mrs. Susanna, for money and good words and hostel admission;
your cat wants to enter." As a voice crowed out: "Who are you
Schalk servants to night time sleeping?"

And Martino, the rhymes like a improvisers gates could gossip,
screamed: "I'm for the rights and come from far away!"

Now keifte the voice again: "When the cat would not be out there,
I never let you YOU!"

And Martino said: "You denket so tenderly about how your shield, the
porcupine." Marinina was in a thousand fears, they always asked to
Martino, the old landlady not to scold, she was certainly a witch,
and will do us no good. Suddenly the door opened, a black-brown,
ragged, otherwise Mägdlein nice and smooth, shiny and slim like
a brown eel, we shone from the kitchen with a Kienfackel face and
was not a little frightened, as Martino in his wild lift her
rapidly progressive forward and by pressing it prevented the door
again attack, it said: "Brown treasure, make us the place! people
we are, beautiful child, here have to sign this Schmatz!"
and thus he kissed them warmly, however, we penetrated into it. The
small but Brown said: "And if you do not even Satan himself are,
so now you can not stay here, my grandmother is very grumpy, they
fear, the ghost forest come tonight night, and since they do not
take guests to the Hostel is not to bring bad reputation,
our chamber where we sleep, is narrow, and they have all
household moves in front of her bed, the ghost can not see that often
throughout our lodge attracts. "Martino but replied:" Precisely
in this chamber, we want to sleep, and this ghost forest, we want to
entertain with roasted woodcock, we are of the wild hunter Gesinde
kitchen! " And so he grabbed a bundle of straw, which stood in the
corner, and marched into the chamber, we came to, in spite
of all the ceremonies, which the maiden nußbraune wanted to make.
There was no old grandmother in the hut, the girl we log something.
Martino spread the straw on the ground, and Marinina, fearful and
tired, lay down the same, with the face, on which she still covered
her apron, swept against the wall, touched down and did not. Martino
went with snipes back into the kitchen, in which the brown maiden
pouting brummend and was retarded, and I saw myself for the time
being in the room around.

Kienfackel A fire in the middle, she was in a pumpkin festgesteckt,
besides playing dirty on a wide oak tree stump was, which as a table
and served Hackstock and was tight enough, because he still stuck
with all its roots in the soil, which ungedielt around the hut their
land was.

A few boards, fastened on poles eingepfählte were the immovable
seats, the walls were made of wattle with clay and soil has elapsed,
and individual branches formed Hereinragend some wall hooks, baskets
in which zerlöcherte, rags, onion bundles, rabbits, dogs, cats -
and roof skins were also some broken garden tools .

On a same but was a frightful beast, an enormous Ohreule which
breaches the Kienfackel with eyes blinzte and threw into the shoulders
like an old professor who just invented the Theriak.

In an extended angle of the bar was on two pieces of tree, the place
of the grandmother's bed, which is very durable in a hollow oak tree,
there where the bark was sitting still. Otherwise the bed was well
considered, because its dirty feather pillows were so high aufgebauscht
that niedre hut ceiling, from which the straw herabhing neither high
nor fall hard if they collapsed, but still to reflect, she seemed
undecided, and her to fluctuate. The house from which the girl had
lied: that the grandmother before him move the bed, consisted of a
broken door and a ton of old, which probably made the noise was that
we heard in the hut. They were both from the Bettrog grandmother
moved.

Besides all this we saw nothing but a very ramshackle ladder,
at a hole in the corner, leaned through which I have some chickens
cackle heard above the noise had awakened our arrival, the cat not
to forget, which is based on an old drum asleep behind the door.
A violin, a tambourine and a triangle hung on the wall, and beside
them a colorful Tyrolean torn carpet.

I had hardly considered all these glories, as Martino hereintrat
and said to me: "Master, I have all the difficulty level and know
where we are.

Yet
this same Nature has imposed an inexorable condition on the
recipients of her bounty; for most of this luxuriance is dependent
upon irrigation. "The palm," said my informant, "will grow with
little moisture here, and so will barley and the grape-vine; but
everything else needs water, which must be artificially supplied."

"How do you obtain it?" I asked.

"We buy the requisite amount of water with our land," was the reply.
"Do you see that little pipe," he added, pointing to an orange grove,
"and do you notice the furrows between the trees? Once in so often
the water must be turned on there; and, as the land is sloping, the
precious liquid gradually fills the trenches and finds its way to the
roots of the trees."

[Illustration: A RAISIN RANCH.]

Dealers in California wines declare that people ought to use them in
preference to the imported vintage of Europe, and the warehouses they
have built prove the sincerity of their conviction. One storehouse in
the San Gabriel Valley is as large as the City Hall of New York, and
contains wooden receptacles for wine rivaling in size the great tun
of Heidelberg. We walked between its endless rows of hogsheads,
filled with wine; and, finally, in the sample-room were invited to
try in turn the claret, burgundy, sherry, port, and brandy.

[Illustration: AN ORANGE GROVE, PASADENA.]

[Illustration: A CALIFORNIA VINEYARD.]

"How much wine do you make?" I asked the gentleman in charge.

"In one year," was the reply, "we made a million gallons."

I thought of the Los Angeles River which I had crossed that morning,
and of its sandy bed one hundred feet in width, with a current in
the centre hardly larger than the stream from a hose-pipe, and
remarked, "Surely, in some portions of this land there is more wine
than water." "Where do you sell it?" I presently inquired.

"Everywhere," was the answer, "even in France; and what goes over
there you subsequently buy, at double the price, for real French
wine."

[Illustration: AT THE BASE OF THE MOUNTAINS.]

It was the old story, and I doubt not there is truth in it; but the
products of California vineyards, owing, possibly, to the very
richness of the soil, do not seem to me to possess a flavor equal in
delicacy to that of the best imported wines. This will, however, be
remedied in time, and in the comparatively near future this may
become the great wine-market of the world. Certainly no State in the
Union has a climate better adapted to vine-growing, and there are now
within its borders no less than sixty million vines, which yield
grapes and raisins of the finest quality.

No visit to Pasadena would be complete without an excursion to the
neighboring mountains, which not only furnish the inhabitants with
water, but, also, contribute greatly to their happiness and
recreation. For, having at last awakened to the fact that comfort and
delight awaited them in the recesses and upon the summits of their
giant hills, the Californians have built fine roads along the
mountain sides, established camping-grounds and hostelries at several
attractive points, and, finally, constructed a remarkable elevated
railroad, by which the people of Los Angeles can, in three hours,
reach the crest of the Sierra Madre, six thousand feet above the sea.
Soon after leaving Pasadena, a trolley takes the tourist with great
rapidity straight toward the mountain wall, which, though presenting
at a distance the appearance of an unbroken rampart, disintegrates as
he approaches it into separate peaks; so that the crevices, which
look from Pasadena like mere wrinkles on the faces of these granite
giants, prove upon close inspection to be cañons of considerable
depth. I was surprised and charmed to see the amount of cultivation
which is carried to the very bases of these cliffs. Orchards and
orange groves approach the monsters fearlessly, and shyly drop golden
fruit, or fragrant blossoms at their feet; while lovely homes are
situated where the traveler would expect to find nothing but desolate
crags and savage wildness. The truth is, the inhabitants have come to
trust these mountains, as gentle animals sometimes learn by
experience to approach man fearlessly; and, seeing what the
snow-capped peaks can do for them in tempering the summer heat and
furnishing them water from unfailing reservoirs, men have discerned
behind their stern severity the smile of friendship and benevolence,
and have perceived that these sublime dispensers of the gifts of
Nature are in reality beneficent deities,--their feet upon the land
which they make fertile, their hands uplifted to receive from the
celestial treasure-house the blessings they in turn give freely to
the grateful earth.

[Illustration: LOOKING DOWN ON THE SAN GABRIEL VALLEY.]

[Illustration: THE ALPINE TAVERN.]

[Illustration: THE GREAT INCLINE.]

To reach their serrated crests the trolley car, already mentioned,
conveys us through a wild gorge known as Rubio Cañon, and leaves us
at the foot of an elevated cable-road to ascend Mount Lowe. Even
those familiar with the Mount Washington and Catskill railways, or
who have ascended in a similar manner to Mürren from the Vale of
Lauterbrunnen, or to the summit of Mount Pilate from Lucerne, look
with some trepidation at this incline, the steepest part of which has
a slope of sixty-two degrees, and, audaciously, stretches into the
air to a point three thousand feet above our heads. Once safely out
of the cable car, however, at the upper terminus, we smile, and think
the worst is over. It is true, we see awaiting us another innocent
looking electric car by which we are to go still higher; but we are
confident that nothing very terrible can be experienced in a trolley.
This confidence is quickly shattered. I doubt if there is anything in
the world more "hair lifting" than the road over which that car
conveys its startled occupants. Its very simplicity makes it the more
horrifying; for, since the vehicle is light, no massive supports are
deemed essential; and, as the car is open, the passengers seem to be
traveling in a flying machine. I never realized what it was to be a
bird, till I was lightly swung around a curve beneath which yawned a
precipice twenty-five hundred feet in depth, or crossed a chasm by a
bridge which looked in the distance like a thread of gossamer, or saw
that I was riding on a scaffolding, built out from the mountain into
space. For five appalling miles of alternating happiness and horror,
ecstasy and dread, we twisted round the well-nigh perpendicular
cliffs, until, at last the agony over, we walked into the mountain
tavern near the summit, and, seating ourselves before an open fire
blazing in the hall, requested some restorative nerve-food. Yet this
aërial inn is only one hundred and eighty minutes from Los Angeles;
and it is said that men have snow-balled one another at this tavern,
picked oranges at the base of the mountain, and bathed in the bay of
Santa Monica, thirty miles distant, all in a single afternoon. It
certainly is possible to do this, but it should be remembered that
stories are almost the only things in California which do not need
irrigation to grow luxuriantly. I was told that although this
mountain railway earns its running expenses it pays no interest on
its enormous cost. This can readily be believed; and one marvels, not
only that it was ever built, but that it was not necessary to go to a
lunatic asylum for the first passenger. Nevertheless, it is a
wonderfully daring experiment, and accomplishes perfectly what it was
designed to do; while in proportion as one's nervousness wears away,
the experience is delightful.

[Illustration: THE CIRCULAR BRIDGE.]

[Illustration: IMITATING A BIRD.]

[Illustration: SWINGING ROUND A CURVE.]

[Illustration: THE INNOCENT TROLLEY.]

Living proofs of the progress made in California are the patient
burros, which, previous to the construction of this railroad, formed
the principal means of transportation up Mount Lowe. Why has the
donkey never found a eulogist? The horse is universally admired. The
Arab poet sings of the beauties of his camel. The bull, the cow, the
dog, and even the cat have all been praised in prose or verse; but
the poor donkey still remains an ass, the butt of ridicule, the
symbol of stupidity, the object of abuse. Yet if there be another and
a better world for animals, and if in that sphere patience ranks as a
cardinal virtue, the ass will have a better pasture-ground than
many of its rivals. The donkey's small size is against it. Most
people are cruel toward dumb beasts, and only when animals have power
to defend themselves, does caution make man kinder. He hesitates to
hurt an elephant, and even respects, to some extent, the rear
extremities of a mule; but the donkey corresponds to the small boy in
a crowd of brutal playmates. It is difficult to see how these useful
animals could be replaced in certain countries of the world.
Purchased cheaply, reared inexpensively, living on thistles if they
get nothing better, and bearing heavy burdens till they drop from
exhaustion, these little beasts are of incalculable value to the
laboring classes of southern Europe, Egypt, Mexico, and similar
lands. If they have failed to win affection, it is, perhaps, because
of their one infirmity,--their fearful vocal tones, which in America
have won for them the sarcastic title of "Rocky Mountain Canaries."

[Illustration: MIDWINTER IN CALIFORNIA.]

[Illustration: A CALIFORNIAN BURRO.]

[Illustration: ROMEO AND JULIET.]

Westward from Los Angeles stretches the famous "kite-shaped" track
which takes the traveler through the most celebrated orange and lemon
districts of the State. Starting upon this memorable excursion, our
route lay through the world-renowned San Gabriel Valley, a glorious
expanse ten miles in width and seventy in length, steeped in
sunshine, brilliant with every shade of yellow, emerald, and brown,
and here and there enriched by spots of brighter color where beds of
wild flowers swung their sweet bells noiselessly, or the light green
of orange trees, with mounds of golden fruit heaped in profusion on
the ground, relieved the sombre groves of eucalyptus whose foliage
was so dark as to be nearly black. Occasionally, however, our train
traversed a parched area which illustrated how the cloven-foot of the
adversary always shows itself in spots unhallowed by the benison of
water. In winter and spring, these sterile points would not be so
conspicuous, but on that summer day, in spite of the closed windows,
dust sometimes filled the cars, and for a little while San Gabriel
Valley was a paradise lost. For seventy miles contrasts of hot sand
and verdant orchards, arid wastes and smiling valley, followed one
another in quick succession,--and down upon it all frowned the long
wall of the Sierra Madre.

[Illustration: SAN GABRIEL VALLEY.]

[Illustration: GATHERING POPPIES AT THE BASE OF THE SIERRA MADRE.]

It is a wonderful experience to ride for such a distance in a
perfectly level valley, and see an uninterrupted range of mountains,
eight thousand feet in height, rising abruptly from the plain like
the long battle-line of an invading army. What adds to its
impressiveness is the fact that these peaks are, for the entire
country which they dominate, the arbiters of life and death. Beyond
them, on one side, the desert stretches eastward for a thousand
miles; upon the other, toward the ocean, whose moisture they receive
and faithfully distribute, extends this valley of delight. The height
of the huge granite wall is generally uniform, save where, like
towers on the mighty rampart, old San Antonio and the San Bernardino
Brothers lift their hoary heads two miles above the sea,--their
silvery crowns and dazzling features standing out in the crystalline
clearness of the atmosphere as if they had been carved in high
relief.

[Illustration: AN ADOBE HOUSE.]

[Illustration: A PASADENA LEMON TREE.]

We sped along, with feelings alternating between elation and
dejection, as the scenery was beautiful or barren, till, suddenly,
some sixty miles from Los Angeles, our train drew up before a city,
containing asphalt pavements, buildings made of brick, and streets
embowered in palms. This city which, in 1872, was a sheep-ranch, yet
whose assessed valuation, in 1892, was more than four million
dollars, is called Riverside; but, save in the rainy season, one
looks in vain for the stream from which it takes its name. I
want my life to the Mordweg think. My Marinina became ill and
died two months later in Croatia; God had blessed them! Martino was
at the Austrian artillery recruit and was recently included in Naples,
where he still lives. I found my bread - God be praised! - For our
merciful Lord. I am glad that your so good came of it, but
what is the brown Mitidika become? "" Yes, if you knew! "Devillier
said," we came to the cave and pulled the horse inside. It
was full of concern for me, washed my wounds and bumps head with
wine and showed me endless love. How did we spend the night in constant
fear and worry about. Towards morning she had no rest more, they
demanded of the old mother, she conjured me immediately to leave the
cave and to flee. The fate of my friend shook me deeply, I
was determined to see him. They swore eternal loyalty to me and I
promised her when I'm after some time again, would it be to make my
wife, she laughed and said: they never wanted a man who was not a
gypsy, and now no gypsies, they no man wants this she cried and
joked, danced and sang in front of me again, and when I wanted to
hug them, they beat me in the face and fled to the cave.

I left the place in the evening.

From death when I heard my friend had to Mitidika returned, her hut
was burnt down, I went to the cave, it was plundered.

On the wall but I found with coal written: "How won zerronnen so
let me keep the love, do what thou canst, I will do what I must."
I have the hold-fated creature throughout Hungary were visited, but
unfortunately not recovered hundreds Mitidikas I have been
presented, but none was right. "" There is only one, "said Michaly
here," and every one thousand years is just a born ."--" Do you
know her?

"Devillier said fiercely." What is it to you, "replied Michaly,"
whether I know them?

Have you not promised her marriage and married but a Hungarian? She has
remained true to you now, she is my sister, and I wanted to pick up
as the grandmother died in Transylvania, where they are fed with
gold panning, the Pestkordon me but the way cut off.

"As Devillier was very moved, he said:" I have long searched for
and not found, she had explicitly told me that she would never to
a Blanken hands and now no gypsies, and only in the hope it again,
I remained until now in Hungary, and I would not have had the means
to stay here, if I am the old lady would not be married to me now
my beautiful Gütchen left behind.

Can you me with Mitidika back together, so I will like to marry and
leave her all what I have ."--" That is a proposal not to despise,
Michaly, "said the vice-administrator," hit is not so in the
wind , you have witnesses!

"Michaly but laughed and said:" Mitidika is not the piece of earth
to stick, it will not be in a brick house and want to be caught by
taxes and interest zerquälen.

Who has nothing has everything, it was always her Sprüchwort: "The
sky is my hat, and the earth is my shoe, and the Holy Cross is my
sword, who sees me, I love and value .""-" That is really GIPSY
spoken, "said the vice-administrator," drum it also always remains
free of bird rabble.

"Michaly took his violin as a song and wanted the freedom to sing,
but the night watchman blew twelve clock and urged the company to rest.
Lindpeindler had with the fireworks and the maid who woke up by the
slope Devilliers for Mitidika was very hurt (because she herself,
at him), yet a quarter of an hour after the Edelhof go. When she
suggested the company, offered Devillier the maid to his
entourage; But she said: "I thank you, I would like a good memory
of the indescribable Mitidika not interfere."

This made a scornful Knicks and left the room with Lindpeindler
of this night as one of the most romantic of his life praised. The
Croat, the Tyrolean and Savoyarde were already eingeschlummert, and
invited the vice-Wehmüllern, whose work was quite finished, like the
gypsies and Devillier to himself in his house. They took it with
pleasure, as they are but a bed had to be expected . Tschermack wife,
the landlady, was paid and closed the door with an invitation:
if they stayed here longer, so another good company to keep it.
Before bedtime knew Devillier and Gypsies to the "vice-bereden,
on the next morning the cordon with durchschleichen to be, because
Michaly and Devillier as much longed after Mitidika, beyond was as
Wehmüller after his Tonerl. They slept until two clock, since the
vice-each grabbed a hunting rifle, and they moved, as a hunter,
a forest back to, but they were hardly hundred paces in front of
the village as it sideways Kordonpiketten confused with the noise
and heard shooting and soon a Hussars, the horse was shot, saw run
across which the call of the vice-screamed: "Cordonus est cum ruptus
poor in a pestiferatis manibus loci Vicini, Kordon is with the armed
hand of the neighboring village of Pestkranken through."

As the vice-Hearing this, he left his company in the lurch and ran
over the neck and head to the village back to its farmers to bring
the weapons.

Wehmüller and the gypsy cried: "Thank God, now let's hurry!"

Devillier bethought nor long, and they ran Sporn stroked Pikett
abandoned after the fire, where they were employed farmers, under
a lot of yelling that bread and other supplies to share what the
Pikett had left.

As they approached, they came a rider forward and shouted: "Stand,
or I will shoot you down!"

She stood and threw the weapon out. They were asked who they were? and
when she says: they wanted on the cordon, and the riders their
voices heard, he fell from the horse and fell to the gypsies and
Devillier alternately around the neck and always screamed:
"Michaly! Devillier, I'm Mitidika." Before the reunion joy
trembling all over, snatched the girl in the Erdhütte of Pikett,
where they the same in male dress, with sword and pistol armed,
recognized, and they just wanted to tell begin, as they
Wehmüllern sharp installations and said to him: "Are you still
always here, fraudsters? I thought you yesterday seist to your wife
after allegedly traveled Weißenburg chair. " All looked at these
words to the dismay Wehmüller, which blocked the mouth in front of
surprise. "I?" he asked finally, "I, yesterday, to my alleged
wife?" - "Yes, you!" Mitidika said, "thou who you call and
Wehmüller're not, you, your wife you do not even know." - "O, that is
to be furious!" Wehmüller cried, "what great recriminations, and
by a stranger who I never seen!" - "insolent society!"

Mitidika screamed, "You know me not! Hast thou not to me for several
days with your love added insurance? Wehmüller Has the real
reason you do not already face proved that you can not Wehmüller
because the right to Wehmüller as no one thinks of his dear
Tonerl ?"--" The right Wehmüller?

" Wehmüller now cried, "where have you ever seen?

least he knows you do not know me ."--" not?" Mitidika replied,
"and travels with me ?"

--" I will be mad!" Wehmüller cried, "now is even a third on the
Tapet; where are the two others? Geschwind, I shall see them, I
will strangle !"--" The third lie you add," returned Mitidika;
"the real is not far from here, I will pick him, because thou shalt
be ashamed!

" Then they quickly ran out to the hut.

This exchange of words was so quickly and violently, and the reason
so wonderful that Michaly and Devillier not had time, the bewildered
painter to testify yesterday that he had been in their society and
that the impossible could be, what Mitidika knew.

They had just been employed, the weeping Wehmüller to comfort than
a very similar figure as he stepped into the hut, where the fire
extinct, it was impossible for someone to recognize certain.

Scarcely had Wehmüller his likeness in the same shape and clothing
recognized when he was like a fury to losstürzte; the other did the
same, and both cried: "Ha, I catch you in your honest Buhlerei under
my name!"

It tore itself like two cocks around. Devillier and Michaly brought
with it violence, and the third Mitidika led Wehmüller herein.
How great was the consternation of all, there is really three
Wehmüller were present.

"No, this is to despair!" cried the Wehmüller the Mitidika had brought
"there is still a !"

--" Lord Jesus!" shouted our Wehmüller now, "Tonerl, you're there,
you're here Tonerl ?"

--" Franzerl, dear Franzerl!

" cried the other, and they decreased as a husband and wife in the arms.
Since it was the one Wehmüller the Devillier stated, not quite well,
and he fell to the ground before the shock. Michaly now stoked
the fire again, that one could see and Mitidika testified the
greatest delight that Tonerl, in a very similar dress like her
husband from her chair Weißenburg with this entgegengereist was
finally found him, after her great Horror from the wrong Wehmüller
in the village, which is due Pestverdacht included, had been plagued
much without him as Wehmüllers woman to discover she was on an old
passport to her husband traveled. They had little joy from the first
recovered as Mitidika said: "We must have the wrong Wehmüller, the
language has lost again to bring." But since her shaking and shaking
all over in vain, she said: "I have an unerring means of the
blessed grandmother learned, the heart is like him, we want it again
looming." As Schopp took a glass and gave it Michaly, including a
Endchen light - the lights on fire - and a slice of bread. "Aha, I
know!" Michaly said and opened the helpless, the vest on the
stomach, put his light on the slice of bread attached to the body
and the glass stülpte it. The burning light which the air under
the glass consumed, made him the body as in a cupping head
into the glass up. The whole company laughed about this Gypsy art
piece, and the wrong Wehmüller soon came to our senses, the real
went up to him and said: "Who are you, based on such a barefaced
manner abused my name?" Answered the patient, which Devillier and
Michaly held to the Earth: "What Guckuck I have on the body?
It is as you wanted me to rip out the stomach, you do me the
vermaledeite lantern at bay, rather I say not a word I Wehmüller
am and remain Wehmüller !"--" Well, "said Mitidika," if you do not
mind you, we want you to enter something sweet. "-" right, "said
Michaly," Katzenkot with honey, Zigeunertheriak. " In this recipe,
the patient received another spirit and said: "For God's sake, let
me get up, I will confess everything, I'm the painter Froschauer
of Klagenfurt." - "I immediately thought," said Wehmüller, "now I
In my hands, I can tell you as a Falsarius in government, but I will
be generous if you give me a physical oath: that eternal days to
resign, the Hungarian National faces in my style of painting. "-"
This is very hard, "said Froschauer," because I have all depends
studied and would starve, the oath, I can not swear ."--" He is
still stubborn!

" Michaly said, "the swift Zigeunertheriak her!" And since Mitidika
is presented as something he wanted to enter, he decided shortly
and vowed everything you wanted to have what it letting go and it
took a lantern from the womb.

The joy and the mischief was now in general, but the day approached,
and cried Mitidika just the Kordonbrecher together to deal with
their captured Proviant meandering retreat, where they had come.

But the vice-came with the Croats, the fireworks, the landowner and
some Heiducken and Pandur over and brought the joyful news
that they had no need to withdraw, because the Kordonkommandant
have just made known only through misunderstanding, the village,
in the fortnight they were blocked in the cordon have been included.
There should be forgiven them so that they breached the cordon,
on the other hand, if they do not complaint about the error would
rise, and the cordon was already after another direction.

The landowner has confirmed this and invited the society from which
he Baciochi, Nanny and Lindpeindler told so many interesting things,
all after his Edelhof.

The peasants and gypsies, under the leadership Mitidikas had broken
through the cordon, were highly delighted with this news leader
cordially thanked her and went home singing after their return.
Michaly but took his violin and played in front of the merry company,
which followed the gentleman. Pleasure, there were many explanations
and Herzensergießungen. Devillier and Mitidika soon had their propensity
tenderly restored and went arm in arm, but then followed the
three Wehmüller, Tonerl in the middle, and the others went
hintendrein over the stubble field. Mitidika said she Tonerl in stool
Weißenburg know that, very distressed about the absence of her
husband, a travel company looking to Croatia, and since they
themselves, after the death of her grandmother, her brother had
Michaly wish, they would have decided to to travel together in
male clothing. Tonerl woman was in a Habit of her husband and she
as the Hungarian pharmaceutical traders traveled until she reached
the village suddenly from the cordon had been included, where she
also Froschauer under the name quite Wehmüller increases in the same
clothes, which the poor little frightened Tonerl not have . After
fourteen days is the impatience and the lack of inhabitants, probably
hungry, but no plague had risen across all borders, and so they have
at their top and through the cordon, which was not easy but it has
become, since the Kordonisten would, for fear to be infected, just
torn as they are with their piles of them appeared. Now had Froschauer
tell he was actually a good rogue, and said: "Dear Mr. Wehmüller, I
will tell you the truth, the fun will cost me twenty-five ducats
and my bride. I'm the painter Froschauer of Klagenfurt and love
the daughter of a meat Hauers; the girl, but always chose between
me and a prosperous Siebmacher, who is also courted by them. He sat
the father of the girl in the head: it was in the imperial Erbland
not a painter, a woman could eat, and even genius, when the
Wehmüller in Vienna, the Hungarian National male faces, and
dressed so and so go while he has not listened to by you and your work
to speak, so that the old butcher and his daughter finally said to me:
they would prefer the Siebmacher if I am in Hungary, the rank is
not expired, and now I bet with the Siebmacher: that I have him in a
year and a day the girl and even assign twenty-five Ducats wanted
to give when I have the rank can not expire.

"I believe this to be the best climate in the world," said a
gentleman to me in San Diego, "but I confess that, when strangers are
visiting me, it occasionally does something it ought not to do."

The truth is, there are several climates in Southern California, some
of which are forced upon the resident, while others can be secured by
going in search of them in a trolley car or a railway carriage. The
three determining factors in the problem of temperature are the
desert, the ocean, and the mountains. Thus, in midsummer, although
it may be fiercely hot in the inland valleys, it is invariably cool
in the mountains on account of their altitude, and near the shore
because the hot air rising from the desert invites a daily ocean
breeze. Even at a distance from the comfortable coast, humanity never
passes into that abject, panting, and perspiring condition in which
the inhabitants of the Eastern States are usually seen when the
mercury goes to ninety. The nights are always cool; although not
quite as much so in July as the enthusiasts tell us who have never
seen the country later in the season than the month of May, and who
weary us with the threadbare tale of never sleeping without a
blanket.

But the Frenchman turned to the maid, which is quiet with showers
pushed into a corner had spoken: "And you, beautiful Nanny, are
so quiet, as you felt when the story hit ."--" Why hit ?

Nanny asked. "Well, I think," Devillier said smiling, "one of the
Croatian meals Lord.

Should the kitten-like chamber in the area not to have been invited
Teedansant?

- That would be a mistake of Mr.

Mores against the gallantry, because of what he revenge of his Lord
alone deserves. " Everybody laughed, Nanny, but the Frenchman
was quite a slap in the face and replied: "You are the man to one
in the call to bring that one was shot, because you have even a shot!"
and they showed him the new five fingers, what Devillier said: "If
this is not the suspect, are not cats manners? They were certainly
there! Tschermack wife, the landlady, we will be able to say, because
it has certainly not lacked I believe that the bruises in the hip
with such an opportunity rather than with the hussars Wurmserschen
receive. " All laughed again, and the Gypsies, said: "I want to ask."
The Croat was about the hurt and disbelief Devilliers began his story
again to affirm by his stiff neck pferdehaarne binders replaced by the
scars from the claws Mores the show.

Nanny squeezed eyes, however, and brought the message of the Gypsies.
Tschermack my wife, Mores should even know best. He continued with
these words, the big black cat of the landlady, who he had caught
the door, the maid in the womb, with a violent scream of horror
performances .-- "confessed!" Devillier said: but the fun
was silly, because Nanny was a near fainting, the cat jumped
on the table, threw the light around and drove the poor Wehmüller
about his wet colors, the vice-tore the window and fired at the
cat, but everything had become rebellious, the buffalo cows in the
background of the room pulled the chains, and each pushed under the
door.

The
moisture in a torrid atmosphere is what occasions most of the
distress and danger, the best proof of which is the fact that while,
every summer, hundreds of people are prostrated by sunstroke near the
Atlantic coast, such a calamity has never occurred in New Mexico,
Arizona, or California. Moreover, when the mercury in Los Angeles
rises, as it occasionally does, to one hundred degrees, the
inhabitants of that city have a choice of several places of refuge:
in two or three hours they can reach the mountains; or in an hour
they can enjoy themselves upon Redondo Beach; or they may take a
trolley car and, sixty minutes later, stroll along the sands of Santa
Monica, inhaling a refreshing breeze, blowing practically straight
from Japan; or, if none of these resorts is sufficiently attractive,
three hours after leaving Los Angeles they can fish on Santa Catalina
Island, a little off the coast; or linger in the groves of Santa
Barbara; or, perhaps, best of all can be invigorated by the saline
breath of the Pacific sweeping through the corridors of the Coronado.
Mitidika! Vienna üng rubbish, Ba nu, nu Ba n'am Chechen fatsch, hearing
what knocks on the door there? Outside the shrine after quarter. Ists
of it? Ists you? Mach I probably never, Nur du Lieber, You sleep here.
Mitidika! Mitidika! Vienna üng rubbish, Ba nu, nu Ba n'am Chechen
fatsch, Waja, Waja, spa libu, In the pot hats nimmer Ruh; Saus and
Braus' disc, and 'up, homemade kitchen devil inside: That I am not
overflow!

"When the fireworks start of this song:" Mitidika!

Mitidika!

"Said the gypsy Michaly took his violin and sang it among the most
pleasant variation of the Company, and all thanked him, of the
fireworks but said:" Michaly, you sang the same song, like the small
brown and have a similarity with in her voice. "-" Maybe, "said
Michaly smiling," but only to tell, I'm on the wild hunters very
eager ."--" I took aa cutting uf the soakrische Schlankl, "said the
Tyrol; all penetrated to the other story, and the fireworks went
on: "When the Small sang the song, it was from a blow to the door
interrupted:" Mitidika!

" it cried out with a rough, hoarse voice. "Immediately, grandmother!"
she replied, opened the door and told her of the guests, the grandmother
growled all sorts, which I did not understand, and then came to us
in the room. My shadow looked like the devil, which is about the
sufferings of the damned bucklicht laughed, and he would not be
in front of her in her office like to prepare a little, I would
have believed that the alp brings me to choke when she occurred.
Andrew McNally, at
Altadena--while others find abundant comfort in the fine hotels.

[Illustration: AN OLD CALIFORNIAN TRADING POST.]

[Illustration: A BIT OF NATURE ON THE COAST.]

Perhaps the principal secret of the charm of the winter climate of
Southern California, as well as that of its wonderfulhealth-restoring
properties, lies in the fact that its dry, pure air and even
temperature make it possible for one to live continuously out of
doors. Yet, though not cold, it is a temperature cool enough to be
free from summer languor.

[Illustration: CALIFORNIAN PALMS.]

Especially attractive to the visitors from the North are the palms of
Southern California. Many of these resemble monstrous pineapples
terminating in gigantic ferns. What infinite variety the palm tree
has, now dwarfed in height, yet sending out on every side a mass of
thick green leaves; now rising straight as an obelisk from the desert
sand, and etching its fine feathery tufts against the sky; now
bearing luscious fruit of different kinds; now furnishing material
for clothing, fishing-nets, and matting; or putting forth those
slender fronds, frequently twenty feet in length, which are sent
North by florists to decorate dwellings and churches for festivals
and weddings! The palm is typical of the South, as the pine is of the
North. One hints to us of brilliant skies, a tropic sun, and an easy,
indolent existence; the other suggests bleak mountains and the
forests of northern hills, and symbolizes the conflict there between
man and nature, in which both fortitude and daring have been needful
to make man the conqueror. One finds a fascination in contrasting
these two children of old Mother Earth, and thinks of Heine's lines:

  "A pine tree standeth lonely
    On a northern mountain's height;
  It sleeps, while around it is folded
    A mantle of snowy white.

  "It is dreaming of a palm tree
    In a far-off Orient land,
  Which lonely and silent waiteth
    In the desert's burning sand."

[Illustration: HERMIT VALLEY NEAR SAN DIEGO.]

On my last day at San Diego, I walked in the morning sunshine on
Coronado Beach. The beauty of the sea and shore was almost
indescribable: on one side rose Point Loma, grim and gloomy as a
fortress wall; before me stretched away to the horizon the ocean
with its miles of breakers curling into foam; between the surf and
the city, wrapped in its dark blue mantle, lay the sleeping bay;
eastward, the mingled yellow, red, and white of San Diego's buildings
glistened in the sunlight like a bed of coleus; beyond the city
heaved the rolling plains, rich in their garb of golden brown, from
which rose distant mountains, tier on tier, wearing the purple veil
which Nature here loves oftenest to weave for them; while, in the
foreground, like a jewel in a brilliant setting, stood the Coronado.

[Illustration: THE PACIFIC.]

The fascination of Southern California had at last completely
captured me. Its combination of ocean, desert, and mountain, its
pageantry of color, and its composite life of city, ranch, and beach
had cast over me a magic spell. It was, however, a lonely sea that
spread its net of foam before my feet. During my stay I had not seen
a single steamer on its surface, and only rarely had a few swift
sea-birds, fashioned by man's hand, dotted the azure for a little
with their white wings, ere they dipped below the horizon's rim.
Hence, though the old, exhilarating, briny odor was the same, I felt
that, as an ocean, this was unfamiliar. The Atlantic's waves are
haunted by historic memories, but few reminders of antiquity rise
ghostlike from the dreary waste of the Pacific. Few battles have been
fought, few conquests made upon these shores. On the Atlantic coast
one feels that he is looking off toward civilized and friendly lands,
across a sea which ocean greyhounds have made narrow; but here three
purple islands, floating on the limitless expanse, suggest mysterious
archipelagoes scattered starlike on its area, thousands of miles
away, before a continent is reached; and one vaguely imagines
unknown races, coral reefs, and shores of fronded palms, where
Nature smiles indulgently upon a pagan paradise. Nevertheless its
very mystery and vastness give to the Pacific a peculiar charm, which
changeful Orient seas, and even the turbulent Atlantic, never can
impart. Instinctively we stand uncovered in the presence of the
mightiest ocean on our planet. It is at once the symbol and the fact
of majesty; and the appalling sense of trackless space which it
inspires, the rhythm of unmeasured and immeasureable waves, together
with the moaning of the surf upon the sand, at times completely
overwhelm us with suggestions of the Infinite, until no language
seems appropriate, unless it shapes itself in prayer.

[Illustration: "A SEA-BIRD FASHIONED BY MAN'S HAND."]

[Illustration: A LONELY OCEAN.]

In Helen Hunt Jackson's novel, "Ramona," the romance of this region
has found immortality. What "Romola" is to mediaeval Florence,
"Ramona" is to Southern California. It has embalmed in the memory of
the nation a lost cause and a vanished race. Less than one hundred
years ago, where the Anglo-Saxon has since built railroads, erected
manufactories, and created cities, a life was lived, so different in
its character from all that followed or preceded it, that only a
story like "Ramona" could make it appear real. At that time about
twenty "Missions"--which were in reality immense ecclesiastical
farms--bordered the coast for seven hundred miles. For when the New
World had been suddenly revealed to the astonished gaze of Europe, it
was not merely the adventurous conqueror who hastened to these
shores. The priest accompanied him, and many enthusiastic soldiers of
the Cross embarked to bear to the benighted souls beyond the sea the
tidings of salvation. Missionary enterprises were not then what they
are to-day. Nothing was known with certainty of the strange tribes on
this side of the globe, and there was often a heroism in the labors
of self-sacrificing missionaries to America, which far surpassed the
courage of the buccaneer. Many exploring expeditions to this western
land received the blessing of the Church, and were conducted, not
alone for obtaining territory and gold, but for the conversion of
the inhabitants. In Mexico and Peru the priests had followed, rather
than led the way; but in California, under the lead of Father
Junipero, they took the initiative, and the salvation of souls was
one of the principal purposes of the invaders. This did not, however,
prevent the Franciscans, who took possession of the land, from
selecting with great wisdom its very best locations; but, having done
so, they soon brought tens of thousands of Indians under spiritual
and temporal control. These natives were, for the most part, as
gentle and teachable as the Fathers were patient and wise; and, in
1834, a line of Missions stretched from San Diego to Monterey, and
the converted Indians numbered about twenty thousand, many of whom
had been trained to be carpenters, masons, blacksmiths, saddlers,
tailors, millers, and farmers. Martino, however, took no reason,
the old woman grabbed with both hands and threw it on the head in
their feather beds and they zappelte like a sea spider, but he
rolled over a spring bed and she sang her a lullaby with so much
good humor, by Using both hands, she stated that she finally even
laughed and said: "Well, you only sets down again, but I would not
think so today by a cheerful companion to bed may be brought.

Mitidika enter the cavaliers to eat!

" And so they got Martino at the head and gave him a kiss great
laughter.

"Profiziat!"

said this, "sleep well, you most beautiful treasure," and presented
with a history sauern again beside me.

"Thank God, Martino that she is gone!" I whispered. "Hast thou
maintaining master?" said the rascal. "Unfortunately, God!" I
replied, "thou hast made an art piece, she smoked like a wet
firework, for a Hutmacher if it were a clean frame, all of his hats
hang out, he needed no nail reconciliation." - "I will probably
have to skin them, because they kissed me, "said Martino." Why? " I
asked. "Ah," replied he, "otherwise I will never again turn a blind
eye zukriegen and teeth can always Blecker like a pug, and the skin
is terrifying to me briefly become." - In these speeches we heard
a joke the Old einschnarchen and Mitidika went and installed
silently and the bed of the Old with the ton and the old door, the
kitchen had them, that the steam hinauszog. Then the plucking Martino
in the hair and whispered. "Come out, your snipes are even,
I have the stock off, I must remove the fire, the twelfth hours
approaching, as does the wild hunting me through the fire, he is our
hut on the whole." Martino went out, and I stretched out head
to the door and heard her talking joke. Mitidika said: "I got
you your birds excellent cooked and you also herbs to the soup
done, what will you give me now?" - "Give?" Martino said, "I want
you to pay with the coin, which seems to apply here, and in
your grandmother paid me, a kiss I will give you ."--" That
is listen," she answered, "but my grandmother gave you an old show
piece, which I do not need the coin is tricky, too ."--" Thou art
away, knave! "Martino said," I will give you small coin, when you
publish and can change, you're only not so black! "-" And so you
do not know, "she said," I will give you a ticket, a change in
black and white, but give me no vagina coin!

" she said.

"The do you get it tomorrow morning at parting," said Martino, she
took the head, and kissed it heartily and said: "I love you and
stay loyal to you ."--" egg lie so that you will be black!"

she said.

"Then I would be your equal, and it could be something to be," said
Martino, and gave her a needle gun of ivory and ebony, which he wore
with them. The girl thanked and said: "See how black and white like
appearance together; permanent with us, and when the old woman
dies, we find the pot of gold and contrebandieren ."--"
Yes, in the galley! " Martino said. "I agree with the
galley!" said she, "Pitsch, patsch! is the rudder, and I sing
to thee ."--" We want to think," Martino said, "it is a brilliant
prospect at midnight." As they came with the soup and the woodcock and
they come to the oak block, we drank the soup from the pot, I wanted
my Marinina awake and not let her part in the warm ashes put the birds
we wanted to eat tomorrow morning. Now began the storm in the
forest again to raise, and the storm moved out of power. "Oh God,"
said Mitidika, "put you down, Martino, and fall asleep!

Do you hear the weather?

The huntsman blows his horn, he will surely come soon, do yourself down,
right, right!" They saw her in the room anxiously around. "Well,
now, what is missing you?" Martino said, and she said: "Sleep thou,
and the face of my return, because I have to undress me and
go to sleep, and thou shalt not see, oh, turn yourself around,
Bare!" - "Bravo!"

Martino said, "I am pleased that you have to keep breeding, only
the putze Kien out at night all cows are black, even the chatter"
- "Yes," she said, "even the bare ass!

turning you around I pray thee, I will delete the Kien even when it
is time. "Then turned to the honest Martino. "Good night, Mitidika!"
He said .-- "Good night, Martin!" she said. Now, it spread a colorful
woolen blanket on the earth beside the oak block, put a half a
gourd full of water that brought a small, dainty boxes even secretly
under the drum out and sat beside him on the bench, where they are
anxious after us umsah.

I blinzte through the eyes and snoring, as I lay in the deepest
sleep.

Mitidika trust and opened the box quietly, mustered all the glories
that were therein, and looked for a space, the needle of the gun
comfortably hineinzulegen Martino. You can not think of my surprise
when I, in this wild gypsy hostel, the Small all at once in such a
delicate and reichgefüllten Schmuckkästchen rummage saw. It did not
quite look as though a monkey behind the toilet of his reign advised
not as a judge of Satan jewel box, to an innocent girl to dazzle
the eye; but an American Indian princess, which presents an English
governor mustered like appearance as well. As it so the beads - and
coral cords, the brilliant earrings and pins by the trembling hands
of the black ran, I could remember like not even think that
this should be good gestohlnes. Now, she more crystal bottle with
fragrances and ointments from the box on the block, pulled fine combs
and toothbrushes, and began to clean and decorate, as night,
with the moons wedding wishes. She took the small, from colorful
woven straw hat from her head, and a stream of black hair fell
over her shoulders, she won by a charming and handsome wild when
their white eyeballs and teeth from the bare black manes hervorfunkelten.

They combed to golden cords are wound into braids, which she wove
and artistically rich as a crown to the beautiful round head set.
They washed the face and hands, cleaned his teeth, cut the nails and
did everything with such incomprehensible daintiness, sweet grace
and speed of movements, that I trembled before the eyes and
trembled. As the brilliant earrings in the small black Muschelöhrchen
fortified and sparkling Quaking needles in the lichen wreath and
put the coral - and amber to brown cords Hälschen presented and
jerked back and forth like a marvel Chen, went through my eyes.
They are watered with fragrances, rubbed the black Patsch Chen with
fragrant oil and put a glittering ring to the other in the slender
fingers Chen.

Now put a mirror on bleckte the teeth and so like it, it is not
to describe.

And with all the thundered and flashed it out there, and their haste
was growing, I see myself on lighting effects at night, but I have
my life is not seen such fireworks, not so nice flashes in the dark
than the basic game of diamonds and pearls on her because she was
a beautiful, free, bold, shy and modest man moving image. fleetingly
she grabbed all the devices back into the box put a handful of white
sugar factory in the Mäulchen and KNUPPERT as a mouse, while the
box with shy glances at him, whether we are asleep, again under the
old drum presented.

The black cat, who slept on the same, be raised and made a high
hump as a surprise to them about it, because with her hands on the
glittering back stressed.

Then she brought a fine white silk shirt, put it on the arm and
began to unravel her bodice, with our backs turned, it looked as
Kußhändchen throw them off if they moved Nestel, but now they slipped
into the kitchen and came back in a few minutes here in a snow-white
Röckchen and a corsage of red Venetian velvet.

So they stood in the middle of the ceiling and looked at their state
with childish pleasure, the thunder rolled fierce, Martin woke up,
grabbed the carpet Mitidika with both hands on the shoulders, pushed
with his foot from the Kienfackel, quickly wrapped itself like a
butterfly larva , a bright flash lit the room, she shot like a snake
to the ground and bent together. Martino had the lights of the
flash yet, but he did not know what it was, he said: "Master, saht
your something?" But I was so surprised that I remained silent, he
said: "Mitidika, are you sleeping?", But she remained silent;
Martino turned around and slept again. My thoughts about what I
saw I could not rest, the wonderful decorations in the possession
of small brown beggar, and that it now so carefully and secretly
created, baffled me immensely, everything came to me like magic
before. You can expect a ghost forest and decorated like a
bride. Was this gestohlnes Good? Is it a disguised, hidden princess?
Why does she sleep in this grandeur, and why they are developed with
all the glory in the old carpet Ein? If all this is secret, as it was
possible, because we do tomorrow morning but had to find her finery?
So I lay under innend, the storm was in full Grimme about us, and
the light flashes of jerking often showed me the picture of Mitidika,
which, like a mummy wrapped in the carpet, on the earth was
outstretched. When I but by the wild weather horn ring heard, I came
to Martino and whispered to him: "Hold yourself ready, I think the
wild hunter in the suit." We heard the horn again and
Pferdegetrapp and Gewieher, and I noticed that Mitidika up, but I
crept across the open kitchen door before, and as with the foot
anstieß to me and thought she handled and to be turned according to a
different page. Martino was on, the door opened and there appeared
a figure with a rapid step through the cooking to us and I took
them in the legs, that they under consideration, and Martino
drosch so big on him, that the savage hunter Zetermordio to
screaming began. "Mitidika, Hülfe, Hülfe! It kills me!" he cried .-
"Ha ha! wild Mr. Hunter," Martino now screamed, "We have sent thee!"
and so we pulled him into the room inside the door and turned on.
The noise was in general, and the guy fought desperately. My Marinina
woke up and cried: "Jesus, Mary, Joseph!

Her light, her light, what is it, o Baciochi, Martin!" The old woman
went out of their beds, threw the old boards, which stood before
her, and shouted: "Murderer, Hülfe, Mitidika!"

These were the chickens on the ground rebellious, drum Kollert brummend
through the room; Mitidika alone could not hear. "Martino, schlage
fire!"

I called and expressed my foreign guests into the throat, that he
could not stir.

Da Martino was an enthusiast in the glowing ashes of the hearth,
the bright hissed through the chamber and the whole spectacle of a
still great reputation there.

My prisoner began anew to wrestle with, and through him I pressed
against the wall, I stepped on some boards, the dodge - and I threw
it down.

A large trestle, behind the boards had rested, jumped up and began
to not bad to come, and I threw my wild hunters to earth so
strong that he did not sound that was more of. Martino was
now a burning Kienfackel in, and we saw the whole confusion.

The wild hunter was a beautiful, slim guy in Galanter hunting
uniform.

He did not, the idea that I would have him do totgedrückt, drove
me immensely through the limbs, I rushed to the kitchen for water,
Martino took the old woman, the cursing and screaming from the bed
was cracked, and threw them back into the feathers with the words:
"Hush breastfeeding, dragon!

We do not want your hair curl, and we have only the wild hunters
intercepted."

Now I stepped with a bucket of water poured into it and it Pratscher!

lifeless on the wild hunter, as he jumped like a wet cat in the head -
"." The water, the cold water, "cried Devillier jumping up
here," was the Allerfatalste! "and the whole company looked at him
puzzled." Well, what a look, "he continued," should I remain silent?
Have I not endured terrible and I am here in the narrative can abuse
again? "Baciochi did not know what he should say about the surprise
interruption Devilliers, Fair said this:" Yes, Mr. Baciochi, I was
a wild hunter, I have you covered so strong, I have it from the
beginning of the story known and would have liked to remain silent,
but the cold water ran over me again awaken the back.

"Then the whole company was pleased the fireworks ranged Devillier's
hand, and said this:" It I am pleased to see you again, everything
is forgotten, not only Mitidika The !"

--" will I hope, "said the gypsy seriously," I ask myself the end of
the story out. "As funny drank all around, and drank Devillier the
health of Mitidika what Michaly an ink geigte and hochpoetische
free Lindpeindler the lives of gypsies praised, the vice-administrator
said, however: they would not have the cleanest hands. The maid but
asked: "Where does the jewelry they only hergehabt?" The Tyrolean
said "The Wilda Jaaga hobt's maisterli zuagdeckt!" and all penetrated,
Devillier may continue to tell. "Well," said this: "I had business
with the Contrebande and some other political contacts on
both sides of the border. I conducted all surreptitious trading
and research initiative to increase the Order of the Carbonari after.
On my Streifereien I had Mitidika me know and passionately in this
beautiful, innocent and witticisms wild child love. In some nights
I visited them, the jewelry that you, Baciochi, they create
sahet, was a gift from me. She had the faith of the ancients to the
wild hunters used to be undiscovered by me several hours to be
entertained. If I come, they are always decorated like a magician,
then I put them on my horse and brought them to a cave, a quarter
of their hut, which the stock was trading in my surreptitious; as
she sat in one of the finest English colorful calico ausgeschlagenen
room with me and feasted me, and a deceased friend with dancing,
singing and speech-friendly.

Towards morning she went back, a bundle of wood in the kitchen,
bearing, and was the grandmother of her hard work praised.

I loved it for its ineffable beauty and virtue, and her whole being
was so wonderful and everything and all the childish mischief
devotion so imperious, that I could never remember their innocence
even with a thought to hurt.

O, it was not more like a man, she was like a magician, like a mountain
spirit, if they are in the gemstone jewelry in front of us danced,
sang, laughed and wept, I can never forget. During the night, where
you and me so ugly Martino zerprügeltet, went all the glory to
an end. Initially, I gave my attacker for Italian gendarmes, I
arrived at the track, but as we had agreed, took me to discover the
opposite is all anger out, and our first concern was: where was Mitidika
hingekommen. The old gypsy woman wailed after her, we searched
every corner and they are not found until the Old Head of the
missing.

Baciochi said to the door they could not come out that he had
davorgelegen, because the rain made us, through the hole in the
ceiling hereinströmte carefully; Martino climbed on the shoulders
Baciochis hinan and found the head, but Mitidika which the heads
according to that, was through the roof climbed out and nowhere to
be found.

I hurried after the door and missing my horse now, I was certain
that after my slip angle should be escaped, and was quiet.

I was neither this nor Baciochi to the gypsy that none of my relationships
with Mitidika knew betrayed and therefore looked for a long time
with.

The weather was so disgusting that we are soon returned, and the
old woman wailed not for long, because we heard Hufschlag and Mitidika
crashed in their jewelry with wild gesture into the room to me:
"Quick, continue to flee! " cried she, "the Italian gendarme graze
nearby, your friend, they have a whole train surreptitious dealers
caught, it is fortunate that here the spectacle went off, I'm afraid
geschlüpft through the roof, so I have discovered the danger close
; speed !"

--" Where?

" I screamed, and Baciochi, Martino and Marinina, which is also
before the discovery feared followed me with all of the driving
Mitidika to the door beyond. They swung on my horse, I am behind them,
and so we both blasted after our hideout, unconcerned about you, Mr.
Baciochi and Eurig. "" Yes, "said the fireworks," You rittet not
bad, and we had The wild weather bad See, you, incidentally, it was
not too verargen that your not invited mitzugehen we had bad
bewillkommt you.

Thus, the entire country is dotted with _mesas_, or
table-lands of sandstone, furrowed and fashioned in a tremendous
process of erosion, caused by the draining through this area of a
prehistoric ocean, whose rushing, whirling, and receding waters
molded the mountains, carved the cañons, and etched innumerable
grotesque figures and fantastic forms. A feeling of solemnity steals
over us, as we reflect upon the lapse of geologic time which such a
record covers, unnumbered ages before man's advent on this planet;
and these deep cañons and eroded valleys, whose present streams are
only miniature representatives of those which formerly wrought havoc
here, teach lessons of patience to the restless mortals who behold
them; while some of the singular formations on the cliffs present
perplexing problems which Nature, as it were in mocking humor, bids
us solve.

[Illustration: A SPECIMEN OF NATURE'S HANDIWORK.]

Was Nature ever really sportive? In the old days, when she produced
her uncouth monsters of the deep, was she in manner, as in age, a
child? Did she then play with her continents, and smile to see them
struggle up from the sea only to sink again? Was it caprice that made
her wrap her vast dominions in the icy bands of glaciers, or pour
upon them lava torrents, and frequently convulse them with a mighty
earthquake? If so, New Mexico and Arizona must have been her favorite
playgrounds. At many points her rock formations look like whimsical
imitations of man's handicraft, or specimens of the colossal
vegetation of an earlier age. Some are gigantic, while others bear a
ludicrous resemblance to misshapen dwarfs, suggesting, as they stand
like pygmies round their mightier brethren, a group of mediaeval
jesters in a court of kings. In the faint dusk of evening, as one
flits by them in the moving train, their weird, uncanny forms appear
to writhe in pain, and he is tempted to regard them as the material
shapes of tortured souls.

[Illustration: A MESA.]

The _mesas_ of New Mexico and Arizona are, usually, regular in
outline, sometimes resembling in the distance cloud-banks on the edge
of the horizon, but oftener suggesting mighty fortresses, or ramparts
to resist invasion, like the wall of China. The Croatian gentleman
claimed that he could very easily Vampyr or the corpse of the first
of the plague dead Wehmüllers who the people wanted to suck
the blood, and the fireworks said that he could bring the
plague, he has probably exceeded the cordon and was again zurückgeschlichen;
the Tyrolean proved that he would not eat the maid verkroch
behind the Frenchman, who, besides the majordomo, the host defended
freedom and humanity. Devillier said he could not expect that
such a select company in which he hold ever from fear and
superstition, the rights of humanity so much hurt be a stranger
because of a mere cricket pending, he would talk with the
man, the Gypsies but seized in the general, fairly loud verbal
exchange his violin and made a wonderful Schariwari this, and because
the Hungarian farmers are not easy to hear a fiddle, without the
dance cramp in the feet to feel so soon gathered and Horia
Klotzka before the inn - -which means as Hinz and Kunz zulande
with us - the girls were driven from their beds and pulled in front
of the inn, and they began to cheer and dance.

The noise was the vice-administrator, the local authority, herbeigelockt
and Wehmüller brought him his actions and the Attestat front of the
surgeon, he also promised that his portrait at the National faces
chose to leave him if he a quiet neighborhood night and gave his
personality in the inn attest.

The vice-let is now the inn open and read the inside of the gentlemen
Attestat surgeons, all of which he announced to reassure those
present.

By his authority he is asking that Wehmüller finally hereingelassen
was, and he took to the cause more reputation to provide a log on
him, which was nothing strange in that it with the words "but"
began. Meanwhile, the farmers had the musical Gypsy herausgezerrt and
were with him at the lime of the village considered the Tyrolean
pulled hintendrein and joudelte from the fistula, the Savoyarde
gargles his "Escoutta Gianetta and clatter with the lid of his empty
box to the bar to less than Linde. Monsieur Devillier asked the
maid to a dance, and Mr. Lindpeindler gave the beautiful autumn
night, and the romantic impression. Thus, the office has become quite
empty; Wehmüller won his National faces from the tin, and
the vice-had soon found his portrait, the painter also promised in
his ear that he had him tomorrow on the cordon would help if he gave
him last night, a number Buttons on the jacket male. Wehmüller thanked
him warmly and immediately started at a Kienfackel his work.
The fireworks and the Croatian nobleman moved to the table on which
his bottle of Tokay Wehmüller Disclosure, and the men turned the
walrus beards, put the pipe and could be tasty. The vice-spoke of the
hunting season, the St. Egiditag because the deer go into rut, had
begun, and that he is tomorrow morning after a Fourteen respondents
wanted out of him great harm done in his vineyard, he also invited
Mr. Wehmüller a , mitzugehen, with him on the foot occurred. Wehmüller
understood that this is a Wink was about how he wanted to help
the cordon, and if he felt like it was not, like deer antlers to hear,
but he took with the offer of thanks to, he only asked for
permission from after the return of the image of the vice-Lord
in his house to be ready to paint.
[Illustration: GRAVE OF KIT CARSON, TAOS, N.M.]

[Illustration: THE BRIDGE OF CAÑON DIABLO.]

The art of bridge-building in some form or other is one of the
earliest necessities of civilization. Even the apes in equatorial
regions will link themselves together, and swing their living line
across a stream to trees on the opposite bank, thus forming a
connected path of bodies along which other monkeys pass in safety.
Bridges of ropes or reeds are, also, made by the most primitive of
men; while viaducts of stone rose gradually in perfection, from the
rude blocks heaped up by savages to the magnificent structures
fashioned by the Romans. But with the introduction of iron and steel
into their composition, bridges are now constructed quickly, with
consummate skill, and in a multitude of different forms assist in
making possible the safe and rapid transit of our great Republic.

[Illustration: HOMES OF CLIFF DWELLERS.]

[Illustration: SKULLS OF CLIFF DWELLERS.]

In addition to all the wonderful natural features of Arizona and New
Mexico, the insight into ancient and modern Indian life which they
afford is of extraordinary interest, particularly as aboriginal
civilization, evidently, reached a higher level here than was
attained by any of the tribes which roamed throughout the regions now
known as the Middle and Eastern States. The natives of the arid
regions of the great Southwest, though subdivided into numerous
tribes, are usually known under the general title of Pueblos. The
name itself, bestowed upon them by the Spaniards, is significant;
since _pueblo_ is the Spanish word for village, and this would seem
to prove that the race thus designated three hundred and fifty years
ago was not nomadic, but had been settled here for many years.

[Illustration: LAGUNA.]

[Illustration: CLIFF PALACES.]

Antiquity and mystery impart a charm to these Pueblo Indians. They
are foundlings of history. We see their immemorial settlements, and
know that, centuries before Columbus landed on San Salvador, a number
of advantageously situated places in the western portion of this
continent served as the homes of powerful tribes, whose towns and
villages formed the scenes of warfare and barbaric splendor. But of
the men who built those villages we know comparatively nothing. Their
origin is almost as trackless as the sand which hides so many of
their relics in a tawny sepulchre. We may be certain, however, that
the remnants who survive are the representatives of myriads who once
made most of the American valleys palpitant with life, but over whom
oblivion has swept like a huge tidal wave, leaving the scattered
fragments of their history like peaks rising from a submerged world.

[Illustration: A TWO-STORY CLIFF PALACE.]

The best conclusions of scientists in regard to the geological
periods of our planet consider that the Glacial Epoch began about two
hundred and forty thousand, and ended about eighty thousand, years
ago. Traces of the existence of men in North America during that
glacial period have been found in abundance, and make it probable
that a human population existed, toward the close of that era, all
the way from the Atlantic Coast to the Upper Mississippi Valley.
Where these men of the Ice Age originally came from is a matter of
conjecture; but it seems probable that they migrated hither from the
Old World, since it is certain that during the various elevations and
depressions of the two continents, it was possible, several times,
for men to go from Europe or from Asia into America without crossing
any ocean, either by the northwestern corner of Alaska, which has
been repeatedly joined to Siberia through the elevation of the
shallow Bering Sea, or by the great Atlantic ridge which more than
once has risen above the ocean between Great Britain and Greenland.
Yet, though the first inhabitants of America, in all probability,
came thus from the Old World at a very distant period of antiquity,
it is believed by the best students of the subject that, until within
the last few centuries, there had been no intercourse between America
and either Europe or Asia, for at least twenty thousand years. Hence
the Aborigines of this continent developed in the course of ages
peculiarities which distinguish them from other races, and justify
their being regarded as, practically, native to the soil.

[Illustration: AN EARLY PLACE OF SHELTER.]

The Indians of New Mexico and Arizona were, probably, fugitives from
more fertile lands, whence they had been expelled by the ancestors of
the bloodthirsty and cruel Apaches. The country to which they came,
and where they made a final stand against their predatory foes, was
well adapted to defense. For hundreds of square miles the land is
cleft with chasms, and dotted with peculiar, isolated table-lands
hundreds of feet in height, with almost perfectly level surfaces and
precipitous sides. Apart from the hyena and the jackal are the reis
animals do not exist. Wild boars are found in the canyons of the
plateau, but also in smaller numbers but Everywhere you push on the
mole, whose footsteps they are even far south in the plane follow
it. The bird life is also economically and through no particular
species represented. Snakes and Scorpions, lizards and other
Gewürm are the same as on the northern slopes of the Atlas, in
the southern plains of the Horn Viper frequently. On the steep
Felsparthien of the highlands, many bee swarms in the hollows
their nests, and from as Alterthum is because even today the honey
is a major product of the country. An animal coming from the south,
the locust, is now also in the time nor often the great scourge
of the land dwellers. The most famous horses of Cyrenaica are
very run down, what form and beauty is concerned, durability, and
strength is intractable, but they still own. Hauptreichthum of
residents, the cattle, sheep [6] and Ziegenheerden of which way to
Malta exportirt are ass and foot animals, you only need to own
and they are not better, than those in the Berber states. The southern
plains have excellent Kameelzüchtereien, which are also out
after Egypt exportirt. The inhabitants of the country are nomadisirende
Arabs. In any case there are traces of Greek, Ptolemaic and Roman rule
never to see how even after the destruction of these gentlemen their
actual Unterthanen, Greeks and Romans to have been destroyed or
emigrated. The Libyan then invading peoples from the Arabs absorbirt
been, at least today is nothing more of Libyerthum to note that
all Moslem religion has nivellisirende between Berbers and Arabs,
which in any externally so close, any difference repealed.

Today's residents Cyrenaicas who speaks Arabic _nur_ (mishmash of
Maghreb and Egypt), is medium size, thin, has an oblong face, in
youth with full cheeks, they are very aged, and the cheekbones are
very clear, piercing black bushy eye brows by vaulted a starkgebogene,
long nose, relatively large mouth and pointed chin are the most
common facial features.

The beard is sparse, hair long and black.

The women who like everywhere where a subordinate position to the
man taking unverhältnissmässig also physically small, have in the
youth full and pretty shapes, and that is full rounds because the
sharp facial features, which in old age but also markirt emerge as
the man without the thousand folds of the skin in a position, the
sharp protruding Knochenparthien obscure.

The nose is for women more than just bent. Men and women love it,
with antimony to draw all sorts of colorful characters make up the
face, chest, arms and hands. The women dye the lower lip, black,
umrändern eyes with Kohöl and stain the nails red. Their clothing is
the rest nomadisirenden peoples of North Africa, and no woman,
with the exception of the cities gutters, is veiled. In the
rest of life is also no difference Basina these barley polenta,
with a strong peppery sauce is also the national dish. Again,
the nomads have no progress made as at the time of Rebecca's still the
woman with the Kruge for wells to draw water, as at the time of
Abraham, the man still plow with the same plow, without that he
would have trouble , better get to know. On the ground, crouching
still eat with their fingers from a bowl, like Jesus Christ
with his disciples. Snussi Something, however, have the habit for
good by a stricter observation of the Muslim rules. Previously,
for example, it was customary in some tribes, that a man verheiratheter
a stranger offered his wife, now would be futile in a Tribus
Cyrenaica, where there was such a bad habit. But reading and
writing is never known, how ever in the country nowhere Medressa
or a school, and also the Sauya which Snussi have not maintained
schools. After fairly safe estimate, by the French Consulate in
Benghazi mitgetheilt, the Gesammtstämme of the large effect of Sirte
(mouth of the Fareg) up to 72,000 armed Egyptian border pedestrian
Cavaliere and 3500, then could the total population of Cyrenaica
to approximately 302,000 residents hit. This is the most important
master Auergehr their various clans represent more than 10,000
pedestrians and nearly 1000 riders, the Brassa count with 3500
pedestrians and 500 Cavaliere, the Abidat with 5890 pedestrians and
350 riders, the ailet [7] Ali 4600 pedestrians and 225 Reiter, Sauya
2100, the pedestrian, 75 riders, etc.

According to the latest messages [8] by the Turkish government as
the landscape of Tripoli Barca independently in a Mutasarefia been
transformed from Benghazi, and has the following Kaimmakamliks as
sub-provinces: 1) Djalo and Audjila , 2) Mytarba or Adjedabia, 3)
Kaimmakamlik the Auergehr, 4) Merdj, 5) Gaigab, 6) Derna and 7)
Bengasi itself Most likely this is but a Irrthum, and the listed
cities and place names are not Kaimmakamliks but Mudirats, as this
would in no way, what size and population are concerned, another
Turkish Kaimmakamlik correspond.

If, therefore, now direct from Cyrenaica Constantinopel governed,
not how to fall in 1869 by Tripoli, but it is likely, although the
Unterabtheilung is the right one, as the name for the same Kaimmakamlik
to doubt his.

Bengasi overnight, which we have described, on the field of Auergehr
whose layers has no fixed seat, but the Tokra frequently, often at the
highest levels aufschlägt tent on Audjila, Gaigab and Adjedabia
[9], which is also described here we have nothing further to add. What
Merdj concerned , in a south-westerly direction approximately 6
hours of Tolmetta (Ptolemais) on the high plateau, so it is no doubt
today that this place is the old Barca. This city was founded by
the Libyans, as the Greeks after Cyrene came, they found ready
Barcelona. The Barcaei stood by the Greeks especially in the
cries of excellent Pferdebändigern and car drivers. As in Cyrene
itself disputes erupted among the Greeks, took a portion after Barcelona,
and from this time on, this city as a separate and independent in the
range of cities in the Pentopolitania. The ancient Ptolemais
itself will initially only as a "port" of Barcelona called up under
the reign of this port Ptolemäer the actual population of Barcelona
up and the city disappears from history. The name of Barca, the
Arabs today to extend the entire country, but undoubtedly Barcelona,
today Merdj ago, although the natives say that this expression,
therefore, the countryside, because the whole area a "Barca" means
"blessing" was. Derna finally, at the northeast in Barca, is the
old Darnis. Bengasi Besides, this is the only city. With approximately
1500 inhabitants is a fairly lively trade with Malta and Creta-driven,
the English here have even a Viceconsulat. In the French war against
Egypt General Gantheaume attempted a landing here, but without
success. Even North America was for a time later in possession of
Derna, but gave the place its due to bad port, or rather, because
such did not exist, again. Derna is the excellent gardens: All
Products and fruits in the Mediterranean ever happen, the region
in abundance. * * * * * From Benghazi Cyrene on after Audjila. It
was an appalling weather, as we in the Todtenstadt our grave, the
Knissieh, left and then through the Battus Street and the City
hinaufzogen this Lebewohl said. Wind and cold rain arguing about
who should win, but as the fierce battle over the top, always remained
undecided, so we had most of them to suffer. Once we were out of the
surrounding wall, we had an old road that ran in a south-westerly
direction, even here and there deep traces of the old vehicles showed,
and like all of the capital city receives through the right and
left was surrounded with ditches. The area was uniform and lonely,
though by no means devoid of vegetation, and everywhere was bold red
Thonboden. About 2000 'was very sensitive to cold, and the monotonous
plateau was only one time, an hour away from Cyrene, from a Uadi the
Isnait-Thale, of which S.-O. after N.-W. deletes, interrupted.
After three hours we reached Safsaf, where one of the grandest
Cysternen the attention of the traveler takes. Most probably collected
these Cysternen which the water of a full lowland record for Cyrene
the rain itself, since the only Cysterne ruins are insignificant,
so as great reservoirs not needed. Probably in ancient times existirte
a water line to the water for the city to lead.

The arch of the covered Cysterne granted only to a few moments
protection against the rain, also threatened the highest points in
the water tank are also overwhelmed.

We decided, therefore, as soon as possible after approximately one
hours southwest of it GASR Gaigab to go, where we have to defend
against the ever more rapid weather could hope.

The Aduli, this was doubly sweet, since he was very close to his
tent had it so in this way came home.

Before we Castell Gaigab what a Turkish company, was reached, I
sent a servant ahead to register me and ask for a room to let.

And soon the rain came in spite of the Commandant of the fort to
us, and barefooted, as he said he had no shoes or boots and slippers
are not the half-grown.

It later emerged, he had moved his shoe stuff to be able to buy
liquor. But why did the Turkish War Minister himself and the other
troops for months without Gage left. Among many Compliments, the
Captain-Commandant, a small fat man, we continued into the Thorwache
rifle and stepped into the "Has dur, dur ssalam" [10] called the
Wachcommandant, and rejoiced as a small child, sometimes the opportunity
to have its arts producir them. Out of the soldiers were also
some without shoes, some even by their legs, sans Culotte, not to
show, had the long coat. Immediately, we were then in a large room and
an efficient coal fire called soon our half-frozen limbs to life,
even a cup of good coffee was ready, the captain was just beside himself
with joy, in his solitude so unexpected guests get to have. GASR
The Gaigab himself, in a straight line only three hours S.-S .- O.
of Cyrene, is a regular square with four Eckthürmen which the fort
flankiren. Each side of the outer wall is about 1000 'long and
are the same 25' high. Inside are the 3-4 'thick walls of the buildings
at the same time, Casernement, Officierzimmer, kitchen, Arsenal
and magazines, which has continued for a crew of 200 men always eat
at 1 year, also is widely available powder and bullets.

Just the opposite with bad stone castle armed Bedouins therefore
offers sufficient protection.

On the four Eckthürmen is also a powerful gun ever, probably one
of the coast used to be a time stranded vessels made, because the
English coat of arms is that the year but is already abgerostet and
whether the same is still very efficient, I would like very doubtful
.

We were soon set up at home and in the evening I had the honor to
dine with the captain, against the custom of the Turks were not to
make knives and forks provided, however, Teller; not unpleasant to
touch, I put my cutlery to my servant to me lain had gone to search
for Adams-style eating. When he sent me but to the mouth off his
own rich dirty handkerchief wanted, thanked me kindly and gave me my
napkin quickly enough. The other officer that Leporello services, but
were not with us at table eating. Even the Captain never allowed
that one of the jars filled Officier (Araki selbverständlich worse)
and when I got him in jokes zurief times, the officer but also
to give a glass, he made a face as if he would get a slap in the
face, and scared the bottle as to protect it in the hand, erwiederte
he, she never drank. The poor Effendi, how happy they would also
probably put a glass, but when it comes to the Commandant was
possible, despite the Soldlosigkeit, money or credit for Araki to
affordable, so could the other officer did not, however, they
revenged afterwards, because the captain zechte until it out of
my room had to be borne out, and now let the other two Effendi quickly
the rest of the bottle into their thirsty throats disappear and then
the empty bottle to the storage side of the careless, but the sleeping
Commandante. How big was the terror of the captain, when he learned
the next morning, I've got no brandy, he had just as much his Araki
granted, then I also have some glass grossmüthigst because he hoped
that I worked on other days all double and triple would replace,
and now he had it with a thun to Frangi, not the times that led to
Araki. But I comforted him by saying he promised to Benghazi from
Alcohol to want to send that I be there to Photographiren Nöthiger
bought, but later left and then keep had left. And his good humor
was restored quite quickly when I told him, the day still want to
stay, because King's birthday, and that I take this opportunity to
soldiers prepare a small celebration wanted.

At the same time, I asked, our norddeutsche Castell hoist up a flag
to be agreed with the captain and with joy, yes, he immediately
beorderte Parade for lunch on the whole Force and Inspection of
buildings, and the soldiers had probably never been her life geputzt
to shiny weapons and to make the new uniforms, which consist of the
magazines (they had probably never been the same angehabt) was spent
in the stand.

Abtheilungen were also busy, the rooms, kitchen and all facilities
to clean, just adopted soon everything in a festive paint.

Noon was because the Force, in court of what had been Castells, solemnly
inspicirt, the captain this time in slippers, but with a saber and
service mark. The soldiers looked better as I had believed that all
their uniforms were new and the French mini-guns, rifles. After then,
the bedroom had been seen, which is also quite neat ausgefegt, but
contained nothing more than what each room offers Turkish soldiers:
for every man a mat and a small carpet instead of a bed, a
kitchen at last, etc. Vorrathskammern were visited were the team had
their lunch einzunehmen. I had the morning to buy more goats and
slaughtered by the soldiers leave, they had rice with it tremendous
Pillau-made dishes, and after it with great haste, as long as they
had probably had no meat, the bowls were emptied, they did not get
a coffee in bulk, where. But the Hauptfestlichkeit went on until
now: I had a couple dozen red Fez, handkerchiefs, then small amounts
of money in paper prices as issued, and the soldiers had hienach race,
sack and running Blindekuh play. The Captain-Commandant theilte
prices, however, after he for his trouble, and because he
himself does not run as Höchstcommandirender could anticipate prices
of each one for itself had. In the beginning it would not be right,
where each had a Turkish soldier dead Running learned or joined
other similar games, but only as a first time for a new red Fez had
conquered, were all so eager and replacing that soon everyone had
gone Theil . But certainly, it was fun to be liable, as is often fifty
years old soldiers (in Turkey serves as a rule, who once Militaire,
so long as he can bear the shotgun) is childishly happy and
just had so great pleasure when they got a prize, as in our lively
school youth. Certainly they will never forget the day that the
Sultan of Milud Prussia forget their own Sultan Abdul Aziz does
not care for his birthday to his troops. Until late into the night,
danced and sang the soldiers, and the captain had been so touched
that he had his two Officier, which also each with Baschlik (about
8 groschen) had won against Baarbezahlung on a glass Araki invited
all were briefly satisfied and happy and tired submitted Turks and
Germans, who on the day of King's birthday was celebrated together,
where perhaps once the car of victory Battiden getummelt were to
carelessly down to sleep.

Since then I am next morning the various sources of Gaigab, one of
which is directly under the wall of the fort itself arises, had
visited and found that all traces of ancient processing show we
said farewell to our Turkish friends.

The Aduli stayed back instead of his, however his eldest son, in
order to serve as a guide.

At 7 ½ clock burst, we had generally S.

-W.-R. achieved by 8 clock 20 minutes the source Lali and equal to
the Marabut Sidi Sbah, where also a source. At 9 ½ clock we were
at the source Djebarah, and led by 10-Sauya the clock Faidia just
north of us. We were always on a grossgewellten but low hill country,
and particularly on the watershed of the Mediterranean and the Sahara.
So at 12 we passirten clock 20 minutes uadi Feria, into the
Mediterranean Sea and then the uadi Tebiabo that is discharged into
the Sahara. Between the two, we reached the greatest height M. 909,
although other mountains and hills sideways from 100-150 M. ways
still higher [11]. The area is not forested, but still not completely
denuded of trees, and the bold red soil reason for the luxuriant
vegetation of flowers, including flourishes here Drias the plant
frequently and vigorously. But residents can be seen nowhere, only
where rock to light is, as everywhere softer limestone, remind the
deep cut tracks wheels of the wagons of the Old, how much even this
highest crest of Cyrenaica frequentirt once was. The area itself
is as grazing grounds of Brassa, one of the major nomadic peoples
of today's Barca called. By 4 clock 15 minutes, we camp at a local,
name Slantia where numerous caves and some natural and some
artificial, a seat of the ancient Libyan Native American show.

The only other notable structure in Ácoma is the Roman Catholic
church, the walls of which are sixty feet in height and ten feet
thick. One can realize the enormous amount of labor involved in its
construction, when he reflects that every stone and every piece of
timber used in building it had to be brought hither on the backs of
Indians, over the plains, from a considerable distance, and up the
desperately difficult and narrow trail. Even the graveyard, which
occupies a space in front of the church, about two hundred feet
square, is said to have required a labor of forty years, since the
cemetery had to be enclosed with stone walls, forty feet deep at one
edge and filled with earth brought in small basket-loads up the steep
ascent from the plain below. The church itself is regarded by the
Indians with the utmost reverence, although it must be said that
their religion is still almost as much Pagan as Christian. Thus,
while they respect the priests who come to minister to them, they
also have a lurking reverence for the medicine man, who is known as
the _cacique_. He is really the religious head of the community, a
kind of augur and prophet, who consults the gods and communicates to
the people the answers he claims to have received. This dignitary is
exempt from all work of a manual kind, such as farming, digging
irrigation-ditches, and even hunting, and receives compensation for
his services in the form of a tract of land which the community
cultivates for him with more care than is bestowed on any other
portion of their territory, while his crops are the first harvested
in the autumn. He also derives an income in the form of grain,
buckskin, shells, or turquoises, from those who beg him to fast for
them, and to intercede with the gods in case of sickness. On the
other hand, the _cacique_ must lodge and feed all the strangers who
come to the village, as long as they stay, and he is, also, the
surgeon and the nurse of the community.

[Illustration: THE ALTAR.]

[Illustration: DANCE IN THE PUEBLO.]

While, therefore, the Pueblos go to church and repeat prayers in
accordance with Christian teaching, they also use the prayer-sticks
of their ancestors, and still place great reliance on their dances,
most of which are of a strictly religious character, and are not only
dedicated to the sun, moon, rainbow, deer, elk, and sheep, but are
usually performed for the specific purpose of obtaining rain.
Formerly, too, when their lives were far less peaceful than they are
to-day, the Pueblos indulged in war and scalp dances; but these are
now falling into disuse. The most remarkable exhibition of dancing,
still in vogue, is the repulsive Snake Dance of the Moquis of
Arizona, which takes place every year alternately in four villages
between the 10th and the 30th of August according to the phase of the
moon. The origin of this extraordinary custom is not intelligible now
even to the Indians themselves, but the object in performing it is to
obtain rain, and the dance, itself, is the culmination of a religious
ceremonial which continues for nine days and nights. During that time
only those who have been initiated into the Sacred Fraternities of
the tribe may enter the _estufa_, on the floor of which weird
pictures have been made with colored sand.

[Illustration: PUEBLO GIRLS.]

[Illustration: THREE SNAKE PRIESTS.]

In the tribe of Moquis there are two fraternities known as the
Antelopes and the Snakes, Each has from twenty to thirty members,
some of whom are boys who serve as acolytes. When the open air
ceremony of the Snake Dance begins, the members of these brotherhoods
appear scantily clothed, with their faces painted red and white, and
with tortoise-shell rattles tied to their legs. The Antelope
fraternity first enters the square, preceded by a venerable priest
carrying two bags filled with snakes. Lury finally made the referee and
said to the farmer: "Do you have this gentleman on the border ?"--"
Yes!" said the farmer. "How could he then again here, and how he
was here the whole time?" Lury said.Around
this the Antelopes now march, stamping with the right foot violently,
to notify the spirits of their ancestors (presumably in the lower
world) that the ceremony has begun. After making the circuit of the
enclosure four times, they halt, and stand in line with their backs
turned toward it. I come just to you, Stepan Stepanovich geehrter.
.= = Tschubukow Why then in the tails, Best? Just like a New Year
visit! = Lomow .= You see, this is it. (He holds it under.) I am
come to you, dear Stepan Stepanovich, to provide you with a
request to harass ... It is not the first time that I have the honor
to me to help you to contact, and always have, so to speak ... but
forgive you, I'm excited. I will only drink water, dear Stepan
Stepanovich. (He drinks.) = = Tschubukow (aside). He has come to borrow
money! I will not give! (For Lomow.) What is because, Best?
= .= Lomow See ... honored ... Stepanitsch ... excuse, Stepan,
Stepan - Geehrtewitsch ... that means I'm terribly excited, as you
kindly wish to see ... In a word, you alone can help me, although
I certainly do not deserve it, and ... and do not have the right,
helping to take. Tschubukow = .= Oh, make no further ado, my
heart! Tell you about the challenge! Now? = Lomow .= C ... In
the moment. The thing is: I have come to the hand of your daughter
Natalia Stepanovna to ask.

Tschubukow = = (joyfully). Angels!

Ivan Wassiljitsch! Repeat this once more - I have not heard good! =
Lomow .= I have the honor to ask ... = = Tschubukow (breaking
it in). My little dove, I'm so pleased and the like, it is flat
and the like. (He hugged and kissed him.) I have so long desired. It
was always my desire (he crushed a tear) and I always loved you, my
most expensive, like my own son. God give you both his blessing and
his grace and the like ... I've always wanted me ... but why do I
stand there like a dolt? I am amazed with delight, quite amazed! Oh,
with all your soul ... I go call Natasha and the like. Lomow = =
(stirred). Dear Stepanitsch Stepan, what do you think, I may consent
to the Natalia Stepanownas hope? = Tschubukow .= really such a handsome
man and ... and since they will not agree at once! Love like a
cat, and the like ... now! (He goes to the right.) Second
appearance. = = Lomow alone. Lomow .= = I'm cold ... I tremble at the
whole body, as before the exam. The main thing is that we must
decide. If you consider long, varies, but speaks to an ideal or to
the true love waits, never married.

Brrr ... It is cold!

Stepanovna Natalia is an excellent hostess, is also not bad, is
formed ... what do I need for as yet?

It roars to me before the excitement in his ears. (He drinks water.)
And do not marry, that does not ... First, I am already five years
old - a critical age, so to speak. Secondly, I need an orderly,
regular life ... I have a heart defect, persistent palpitations,
I'm sensitive and get always in terrible commotion. Immediately shake
my lips and on the right temple twitches of the pulse ...
But that is the Allerschrecklichste sleep. No sooner had I laid in bed
and start einzuschlummern as tugs and suddenly plucks something from
the left side!
The religious element in all these ceremonies should not be lost
sight of, for the life of the Pueblo Indians is permeated with
religion, or superstition, to the minutest details. Thus, it is an
interesting fact that vicarious atonement has been a custom among
them from time immemorial, and their _cacique_ is compelled to fast
and do penance in many ways for the sins of his people. In some of
the villages, also, certain men and women are chosen to expiate the
wrongdoings of the tribe; and for more than a century there has been
in New Mexico an order of Penitents, who torture themselves by
beating their bodies with sharp cactus thorns, by carrying heavy
crosses for great distances, and even by actual crucifixion. The
severest of these cruel rites have, finally, been suppressed by the
Roman Catholic church, but it encountered great difficulty in so
doing, and the last crucifixion took place in 1891.

[Illustration: RELICS OF CLIFF DWELLERS.]

[Illustration: SUMMIT OF A MOQUI MESA.]

Such, then, are the Pueblos of New Mexico and Arizona; a race uniting
aboriginal Pagan rites with Christian ceremonies: cherishing at the
same time their idols and their churches; using to-day their rifles,
and to-morrow their bows and arrows; pounding occasionally with a
hammer, but preferably with a stone; and handling American money for
certain purchases, while trading beads, shells, and turquoises for
others. Sometimes we wonder that they have not made more progress
during the centuries in which they have been associated with
Europeans; but it is hard to realize the difficulties which they have
encountered in trying to comprehend our civilization, and in grasping
its improvements. Even the adoption of the antique Spanish plow, the
clumsy two-wheeled cart, the heavy ax and the rude saw, which are
still found among them, caused them to pass at one stride from the
Stone to the Iron Age, which, but for the intervention of the
Spaniards, they would not naturally have reached without centuries of
patient plodding. Moreover, before the arrival of the Europeans, the
Aborigines of America had never seen horses, cows, sheep, or dogs,
and the turkey was the only domestic animal known to them. Hence, in
ancient American society there was no such thing as a pastoral stage
of development; and the absence of domestic animals from the western
hemisphere is a very important reason why the progress of mankind in
this part of the world was not more rapid. Still it is a remarkable
fact that the most ancient race, of which we have any actual
knowledge on this continent, is, also, the most peaceful,
self-supporting, and industrious, subsisting principally on the sale
of their curiously decorated pottery, and the products of their arid
soil. We saw here a young man who had been educated in the Government
School at Carlisle; but, like most of his race, after returning to
his village he had reverted to the ways of his ancestors,
disqualified by his birth and instincts of heredity from doing
anything else successfully.

[Illustration: MOQUI CART AND PLOW.]

[Illustration: MOQUI CHILDREN.]

It was late on the night succeeding our visit to Ácoma that we
arrived at Flagstaff, and our entire party was asleep. Suddenly we
were aroused by a prolonged shout and the discharge of half a dozen
revolvers. Five minutes later there came a general fusillade of
pistol shots, and near and distant cries were heard, in which our
half-awakened faculties could distinguish only the words: "Hurry up!"
"Call the crowd!" "Down the alley!" Then a gruff voice yelled just
beneath my window: "Let her go," and instantly our locomotive gave a
whistle so piercing and continuous that all the occupants of our car
sprang from their couches, and met in a demoralized group of
multicolored pajamas in the corridor. What was it? Had the train been
held up? Were we attacked? No; both the whistle and the pistol shots
were merely Flagstaff's mode of giving an alarm of fire. We hastily
dressed and stepped out upon the platform. A block of buildings just
opposite the station was on fire, and was evidently doomed; yet
Flagstaff's citizens, whose forms, relieved against the lurid glow,
looked like Comanche Indians in a war dance, fought the flames with
stubborn fury. The sight of a successful conflagration always thrills
me, partly with horror, partly with delight. Three hundred feet away,
two buildings formed an ever-increasing pyramid of golden light. We
could distinguish the thin streams of water thrown by two puny
engines; but, in comparison with the great tongues of fire which they
strove to conquer, they appeared like silver straws. Nothing could
check the mad carousal of the sparks and flames, which danced,
leaped, whirled, reversed, and intertwined, like demons waltzing with
a company of witches on Walpurgis Night. A few adventurous men
climbed to the roofs of the adjoining structures, and thence poured
buckets of water on the angry holocaust; but, for all the good they
thus accomplished, they might as well have spat upon the surging,
writhing fire, which flashed up in their faces like exploding bombs,
whenever portions of the buildings fell. Meantime huge clouds of
dense smoke, scintillant with sparks, rolled heavenward from this
miniature Vesuvius; the neighboring windows, as they caught the
light, sparkled like monster jewels; two telegraph poles caught fire,
and cut their slender forms and outstretched arms against the jet
black sky, like gibbets made of gold. What did you say? = Natalia
Stepanowa .= Papa, immediately send the reaper on the prairies!
Tschubukow = = (to Lomow). What did you say Mr.? = Natalia
Stepanovna .= The Oxen Meadows are ours, and I do not, I do not, I
do not do it! = Lomow .= That we still want to see! I will you to
court to prove that they belong to me! = .= Tschubukow Before court.
You can sue in court, Mr., and the like, you can! I know you, you are
waiting for an opportunity to lead processes and the like ... A intriguer
are you! Your whole family has always wanted Handel! The whole! = Lomow
.= I ask my family not to offend. All of the sex of the Lomows were
honest, and it has no where, because of the embezzlement was
dragged to court, how's your uncle! Tschubukow = .= Lomowschen And
in your family were all insane! = Natalia Stepanovna .= All,
all, all !

= .= Tschubukow Her grandfather was a periodical drunkard, and the
younger aunt who Nastasia Mikhailovna, is through with an architect,
and the like.

Lomow .= = And your mother has gehinkt.

(He reaches for the heart.)

On the side it jerks ... hammer it in your head ...

Father in heaven ... water! = .= Tschubukow And your dad was a
little card and a wolverine!

= .= Natalia Stepanovna your aunt a Klatscherin, as their are few!

= .= I Lomow the left leg paralyzed. .. And you are a intriguer ...
Ah, the heart ... And it is a secret for nobody that you geschwindelt
in the elections ... It flickers before my eyes ... Where's my hat?
= Natalia Stepanovna .= How low! Liar! Disgusting! = .= Tschubukow
yourself are simply a malicious, hypocrisy and mendacity man! Yes
- a! Lomow .= = There's the hat ... The heart ... Where should I go?
Where's the door? Oh! it seems to me I die ... I can not, the legs
shiver ... (He goes to the door.) = Tschubukow = (follows him). That
your feet my house no longer enter! = Natalia Stepanovna .= suits
you in court! We want to see. Lomow = = (shaky goes through the
center). Fünfter appearance. Tschubukow .= = = = .= Natalia Stepanovna
Tschubukow = (angry). To hell! = Natalia Stepanovna .= Such a
good-for-nothing! Since you have to be good neighbors think! Tschubukow
= .= scoundrel! Scarecrow! Monster! = Natalia Stepanovna .= Such a
Mißgeburt, is a foreign land and yet dare to quarrel. = .= Tschubukow
And this ghost, this is under Hühnerfuß still a marriage proposal to
make, and the like. Stepanovna = Natalia What .= for a marriage proposal?
Tschubukow = .= Well! He came but to give you a marriage proposal
to make. Stepanovna Natalia .= = A marriage proposal? Mir? Why hast
thou not told sooner? = Tschubukow .= Has the dress but it is created.
Such a Bratwürstel, then a dirt nose! = Natalia Stepanovna .= +
I + one marriage proposal? Oh! (It falls into a Armstuhl and groans.)
We should bring him back! Oh, Bring Back! = Tschubukow .= Wen
bring back? = Natalia Stepanovna .= Faster, faster! I feel sick! Bring
Back! (Hysterical seizure.) .= = Tschubukow What is there?

What is you?

  (He holds in his head.) I'm an unhappy
    person! I shoot myself! I hang 'on me! It
  tortures me to death! = Natalia Stepanovna
    .= I die! Bring Back! Tschubukow = .= Pfui!
  Gleich, heul 'no! (He runs through the center.)
  = = Stepanovna Natalia (alone; groans). What
  has my eye! Bring him back! Bring him back!

  Tschubukow = = (to run). Immediately, he
    and the like. The devil hol 'him! Uf! Say you
  have with him, I do not want to and things
    like that. = Natalia Stepanovna = (groans).
  Bring Back! = .= Tschubukow He says it to you.
  "Oh, Creator! how 'a task is a father
  to his adult daughter, "[1] I cut my neck through!

  Certainly, I cut through the neck! You
    have the people ausgezankt, insulted,
  hinausgejagt ... and all you have done ... du [1]
    From Gribojedows: "Woe to the clever."
  Natalia Stepanovna = .= No, you! You have no
  manners and are rough, if you do
  not - he would not fortgegangen!

  = Tschubukow .= Well, I wear guilt! But wait
    just Gevatterin, and the like, if I shoot or
  suspension, then know that you are carrying debt!
    You've brought me to! Only you! (The door is
  Lomow.) Da, talk with him myself! (He's up.) = Lomow
  = (occurs exhausted on). Sixth
  appearance.

  Stepanovna = Natalia Lomow .= = .= = .= Lomow
    terrible palpitations ... The leg is paralyzed
  ... In side shrugs it ... Natalia
    Stepanovna .= = Excuse me, we have
  ereifert, Ivan Wassiljitsch ... I remember
  now ... the meadows are actually steers you. Lomow
  .= = The heart knocking terribly ...

My oxen meadows ...

Both eyelids twitch ... (They are.)

We were wrong ... I was about the principle ...

The land is not expensive to me, but the principle is expensive to
me ... = Natalia Stepanovna .= precisely the principle. Do we speak
of something else. Lomow = .= The more so, since I have the
evidence: the grandmother, my aunt has the farmers of the
grandfather of your dear father ... = Natalia Stepanovna .= Enough,
enough of them ... (Beiseite.) I do not know what to start ... (For
Lomow.) Soon go on the hunt? = Lomow .= Yes, the black grouse, dear
Natalia Stepanovna. After the harvest I intend to start. Oh, have
you heard? Think only what misfortune! My dog Ugadai, but you
know, limps! Natalia Stepanovna .= = What a pity! Why? Lomow = .= I
do not know ... Maybe it's a dislocation, or other dogs have bitten
him. (He sighs.) The best dog, the money did not talk! I have yet
to Mironov 125 rubles paid for him. Stepanovna Natalia .= = This is
overpayment, Ivan Wassiljitsch. Lomow .= = In my opinion he is very
cheap. A beautiful dog. .= = Natalia Stepanovna dad has for his
Otkatai 85 rubles, and Otkatai is much better than your Ugadai. Lomow
.= = So ... Otkatai is better than Ugadai? What you mind! (He
laughs.) Otkatai is better than Ugadai! = Natalia Stepanovna .=
course better! Otkatai, yes it is true, is still young,
he still has not thrown, but in the mutiny, and also on a leash with
two, three others there is no better than him, even when ... Lomow
.= = Allow, Natalia Stepanovna, but you see that he has a short
lower jaw and that a dog with a short mandible snap is not good. .=
= Natalia Stepanovna short mandible? I hear for the first time! =
Lomow .= I assure you, the lower jaw is shorter than the upper. .=
= Natalia Stepanovna Did you get measured?

Lomow = .= I have measured.

For running it is good of course, but whether or not to collect
in-flight ... hardly ... = Natalia Stepanovna .= First is our Otkatai
of pure race, thoroughbred, he is the son Sapragajas and Stameskis,
and variegated with your man did not come to his home ...

Then your old and ugly as a flap arid Schindmähre ... Lomow .= =
Alt, certainly! I take him for less than five Otkatais your
... Can this also? Ugadai - is a dog and Otkatai ... it is ridiculous
to argue ... Such as your Otkatai found in each dog so many traders
that they could fill a pond. Stepanovna Natalia .= = In you, Ivan
Wassiljitsch, now sits an evil spirit of the opposition. Soon you
are the meadows, and soon Ugadai is better than Otkatai. I
do not like it when a man is not the talking, what he thinks. You
know very well that Otkatai hundred times better than your ...
this stupid Ugadai. So why say the opposite? Lomow = .= I see
Natalia Stepanovna you hold me for blind or a fool. But you can
understand that Otkatai has a short lower jaw! Natalia Stepanovna .=
= It is not true! Lomow .= = Yes, a short mandible! = Natalia
Stepanovna = (screams). Not true! = Lomow .= Why you crying because,
my Merciful? = Natalia Stepanovna .= Why you talking such nonsense?
That is outrageous! It is high time your Ugadai to shoot, and
you compare him with Otkatai! = Lomow .= Excuse me, I can not resolve
this dispute will continue. I have palpitations. Stepanovna Natalia
.= = I have noticed that those hunters argue most, the least
understood. Lomow .= = My Merciful, I ask you, you remain silent
... My heart bursts ... (He cries.) Silence you! = Natalia Stepanovna
.= I will not be silent until you can not admit that Otkatai a
hundred times better than your Ugadai. = .= Hundred Lomow worse.

Krepieren he should, your Otkatai!

The temples ... The eyes ... The shoulder ... = Natalia Stepanovna
.= And your stupid Ugadai is not necessary to krepieren because
he is already as krepiert! = Lomow = (screams). Silence you! I have
a heartbeat ... = Natalia Stepanovna .= I will not be silent!
= Tschubukow = (enters). Seventh appearance. = The former Tschubukow
= .= .= .= = Tschubukow What is there again? = Natalia Stepanovna .=
daddy, tell 'sincere on Ehr' and conscience: what dog is better - our
Otkatai or his Ugadai? = .= Lomow Stepan Stepanovich, I implore you
to tell you just one: your dog has a short mandible or not? Yes or
no? Tschubukow .= = And if! Is that so important? There are no
better all around dog, and the like. Lomow = .= But my Ugadai is
better? Say you sincerely! = .= Tschubukow Do not rain
on Schätzbarster ... Allow ... Your Ugadai has just his good qualities
...

He is a good race, has strong legs, strong thighs and the like.

But the dog, if you want to know my best, has two shortcomings: it
is old and has a short lower jaw.

Lomow .= = Excuse me, I have palpitations ... When we speak of facts
... do you remember Maruskins Meadows went to my Ugadai with the Count's
Raswachai ear to ear and your Otkatai versts was a whole back.
Tschubukow = .= He remained behind because the Count's supervisor him
with his whip had beaten. Lomow = .= He was right, all the dogs feel
after the fox, Otkatai but considers it necessary, to bite a sheep! =
.= Tschubukow That is not true ... Liebster ... I'm irritable
and I ask you a question, we depart from this dispute. He has
beaten him, because everyone on a strange breed dog good looks with
envy ... Yep, all are envious. You too, sir, are not free from sins!
You hardly notice that the dog of another is better than your
Ugadai, so start earning ... this ... that ... ... be my ... and
the like ... I remember just about everything! = Lomow .= I,
too, remember! = Tschubukow = (ape). Also I remember ... what do you
remember? = .= Lomow palpitations ... The leg is paralyzed ... I
can not ... = Natalia Stepanovna = (nachspottend). Palpitations ...
what are you a hunter? You should be cooking on the stove, and
strangle cockroaches, but not fox hunting! Palpitations ... Tschubukow
= .= Truly, what are you a hunter? With your illness you sit at home
and not dangling around on the saddle. If you are a hunter would,
but you go around but the only reason for you to argue about other
dogs, people upset and the like. I'm irritable, we leave this
interview, you are not a hunter! Lomow .= = Are + you + as a
hunter?

You just go out to the Count einzuschmeicheln to intrigue ...

The heart ... You intriguer ...!

= .= Tschubukow now and when I'm intriguer? (He cries.) Silence you! =
Lomow intriguer .=! = Tschubukow .= Jack! A young dog! Changing pharmacy!
= Lomow .= Old rat! Jesuit! I know exactly! Tschubukow = .= Hush!
Otherwise I shoot you down ... with the worst gun, like a partridge!
Dude! Dove nut! Dawdler! = .= Lomow all know that - oh! The heart!
- Your blessed woman has thrashed you ... The leg ... the temples
... Sparks ... I fall for, I fell ... Tschubukow = .= And you're
under the slipper your Beschließerin! = .= Lomow here ... da ...
da ... is the heart burst. The shoulder is fortgerissen ... Where
is my shoulder? ... I'm dying. (He falls into the armchair.) The
Doctor! (Ohnmacht.) = .= Tschubukow Jack! Yellow beak! Dude! I feel
sick! (He drinks water.) Evil me = Natalia Stepanovna .= What are you
a hunter? You can not even sit on a horse! (For father.) Dad, what
does it do? Dad, look out, Dad! (You wailed.) Wassiljitsch Ivan! He
is dead! Tschubukow = .= I feel sick! The breath failed me ... Air!
... = Natalia Stepanovna .= He is dead! (They shake Lomow on
the sleeve.) Wassiljitsch Ivan! Ivan Wassiljitsch! What have we served?
He is dead! (It drops into the armchair.) The Doctor! The doctor!
(Hysterical seizure.) .= = Tschubukow Oh! ... What is there? What's
missing you? = Natalia Stepanovna = (groans). He is dead ... Tot! =
.= Tschubukow Who died? Who is dead? (On Lomow look.) Truly, he
is dead! Righteous God! Water! The doctor! (The glass on Lomows
lips conservative.) Drink ... No, he does not drink ... So he is dead
and the like ... Unglückseligster man who I am! Why I do not hunt
ball in the forehead? Why I have not yet cut through the neck? What
I still waiting? Give me a knife! Give me a gun! (Lomow moves.) It
seems he comes to himself ... Drink water! Sunday .. = Lomow .=
sparks ... Fog ... Where am I? Tschubukow = .= marriages you! Quick
... and the devil ... It agrees!

(It combines the hands Lomows which Natalias.)

It is agreed and the like.

I bless you, and the like. But let me just in Ruh '!

= Lomow .= Hey, what? (Rise). Whom? Tschubukow .= = It is so! Now?
Kissed you, and ... and the devil with you! = Natalia Stepanovna =
(groans). He lives ... Yes, yes, I agree ... Tschubukow = .= kissed
you! = Lomow .= Eh? Who? (He and Natalia Stepanovna kiss it.) Very
nice ... Allow to what is it? Ah, yes ... I understand ... the heart
... sparks ... I'm happy, Natalia Stepanovna ... (He kisses
her hand.) The leg is paralyzed ... = Natalia Stepanovna .= I
too am happy ... Tschubukow .= = Uf ... a mountain from the shoulders
... Uf! = Natalia Stepanovna .= And yet, you at least try to Ugadai
is worse than Otkatai. Lomow .= = Better! Natalia Stepanovna .= =
Worse! = Tschubukow .= Now begins the family happiness! Champagne! =
Lomow .= Better! Natalia Stepanovna .= = Worse! Worse! Worse! =
Tschubukow = (endeavoring to them to scream). Champagne! Champagne!
Champagne!
So, when we gaze on forms like these, shaped like gigantic
temples, obelisks, and altars fashioned by man's hands, we try to see
behind them something personal, and even name them after Hindu,
Grecian, and Egyptian gods, as if those deities made them their
abodes. Thus, one of these shrines was called by the artist, Thomas
Moran, the Temple of Set; three others are dedicated respectively to
Siva, Vishnu, and Vulcan; while on the apex of a mighty altar, still
unnamed, a twisted rock-formation, several hundred feet in height,
suggests a flame, eternally preserved by unseen hands, ascending to
an unknown god.

[Illustration: SOME OF THE CAÑON TEMPLES.]

[Illustration: SIVA'S TEMPLE.]

It is difficult to realize the magnitude of these objects, so
deceptive are distances and dimensions in the transparent atmosphere
of Arizona. Siva's Temple, for example, stands upon a platform four
or five miles square, from which rise domes and pinnacles a thousand
feet in height. Some of their summits call to mind immense sarcophagi
of jasper or of porphyry, as if they were the burial-places of dead
deities, and the Grand Cañon a Necropolis for pagan gods. Yet, though
the greater part of the population of the world could be assembled
here, one sees no worshipers, save an occasional devotee of Nature,
standing on the Cañon's rim, lost in astonishment and hushed in awe.
These temples were, however, never intended for a human priesthood. A
man beside them is a pygmy. His voice here would be little more
effective than the chirping of an insect. The God-appointed
celebrant, in the cathedrals of this Cañon, must be Nature. Her voice
alone can rouse the echoes of these mountains into deafening peals of
thunder. Her metaphors are drawn from an experience of ages. Her
prayers are silent, rapturous communings with the Infinite. Her hymns
of praise are the glad songs of birds; her requiems are the meanings
of the pines; her symphonies the solemn roaring of the winds.
"Sermons in stone" abound at every turn; and if, as the poet has
affirmed, "An undevout astronomer is mad," with still more truth can
it be said that those are blind who in this wonderful environment
look not "through Nature up to Nature's God." These wrecks of Tempest
and of Time are finger-posts that point the thoughts of mortals to
eternal heights; and we find cause for hope in the fact that, even in
a place like this, Man is superior to Nature; for he interprets it,
he finds in it the thoughts of God, and reads them after Him.

[Illustration: NEAR THE TEMPLE OF SET.]

[Illustration: HANCE'S TRAIL, LOOKING UP.]

The coloring of the Grand Cañon is no less extraordinary than its
forms. Nature has saved this chasm from being a terrific scene of
desolation by glorifying all that it contains. Wall after wall,
turret after turret, and mountain range after mountain range belted
with tinted strata, succeed one another here like billows petrified
in glowing colors. These hues are not as brilliant and astonishing in
their variety as are the colors of the Yellowstone Cañon, but their
subdued and sombre tones are perfectly suited to the awe-inspiring
place which they adorn. The prominent tints are yellow, red, maroon,
and a dull purple, as if the glory of unnumbered sunsets, fading from
these rugged cliffs, had been in part imprisoned here. Yet, somehow,
specimens of these colored rocks lose all their brilliancy and beauty
when removed from their environment, like sea-shells from the beach;
a verification of the sentiment so beautifully expressed in the lines
of Emerson:

  "I wiped away the weeds and foam,
  I fetched my sea-born treasures home;
  But the poor, unsightly, noisome things
  Had left their beauty on the shore,
  With the sun and the sand and the wild uproar."

[Illustration: MIST IN THE CAÑON.]

To stand upon the edge of this stupendous gorge, as it receives its
earliest greeting from the god of day, is to enjoy in a moment
compensation for long years of ordinary uneventful life. When I
beheld the scene, a little before daybreak, a lake of soft, white
clouds was floating round the summits of the Cañon mountains, hiding
the huge crevasse beneath, as a light coverlet of snow conceals a
chasm in an Alpine glacier. Are the acorns beautiful inside, followed
a nice summer, certainly credible, too, will grow the same time beautiful
grain, and so is Müh verlorn not work. If they are found inside
wet, tuts us express a wet summer, are they thin, the summer
hot, That would tell you with all diligence. this September,
but as early and often, that it certainly soon cold and frost
plague is already Vertilger ."--" All right, "said the
vice-administrator," we will have a early winter and a beautiful
autumn, because the deer is on a beautiful Egiditag in oestrus, as
it also occurs on a nice day out, and if it occurs early, as
this year, as winter is approaching and soon. "On these considerations
Weather they came on to talk about cold winters, and the Croat
told the following story, which he some years ago in a cold winter
night in the Christian should be done, and he conjured them up
and expensive. But just as he wanted to start, a great spectacle
schallte by the Linde ago. Lindpeindler and the maid rushed to the
clamor in the office, on the square dance was again a Wehmüller appeared.
"Oh," cried the maid, "he did me like a ghost, and is addressed to
me so horribly under the Linde herumgetanzt that my hood remained
in the branches. "This statement jumped off the table at all
and also wanted to topple. The vice-but bade the painter, to remain
seated until you know whether he or the other it is. Since approached
the spectacle, and soon joined the gypsies, funny fiedelnd, from the
accompany krähenden farmers, with the new Wehmüller before
the tavern. As is clarified as soon as the joke on. Devillier trip
had the gray coat and hat in Wehmüllers way out and a set metal
stovepipe, which stood at an angle, umgehängt the timid maid to
frighten. Nanny was very ridiculed, and now vice-ordered the
people to go to bed, but as some still wanted to dance and have
been grossly, he cried after his Heiducken , placed a bank even
before the door, put his own boys about an irreverent and left him
five list, in which small refreshment ball the whole company with
a loud "Vivat dominus noster Vicegespannus!"

jubilantly took to the house.

Well ordered the rest of society in the narrow room, like it wanted
to go to the table and stove, and tons of containers and the fidelity
of the night the landlady angeschleppten straw bundles.

Devillier could bring some jugs of wine, and the maid was startled at
startle wacker been drunk. They then asked the Croats, promised his
story to tell, which, while Wehmüller serious thought to his Tonerl
buttons painted, thus began. Pickenick The story of Katers Mores
of the Croatian nobleman My Freihof is lonely, half an hour from the
Turkish border, in a forest sumpfichten where everything in
the most splendid and fatal abundance, for example, the nightingales,
which are becoming the day before sleep awake, and last summer
the Beasts whistled so close and impertinent in such quantities in
front of my window that I once in the greatest wrath night after they
threw the pot. But I soon got a home to be with, them to the service
and watched me from the vermin-free. Today it is three years, when I
am on my Finkenherd went with a Pallasch, a good double rifle and a
pair of double guns which, because I had a Turkish Wildpretdieb and
traders in the grain, to me some time big game damage, and pleased me,
because I had warned him, had defiantly say that he does not disturb
me and wanted to under my eyes in my forest to hunt. When I came
after Finkenherd, I found all my slings and issued Dohne ausgeleert
and noticed that the Spitzbube had been given. fierce, I think back
to Fang, as pointed out a large black cat out of the thicket grumbling
to me , and made himself so zutulich that I am his fur with pleasure
installations and caressed him with the hope it to me to get used
to me and some of his winter hair to make a hat.

I've always been a lively winter coat in the summer in my area, I
need about no money for furriers to take me there are no moths in
my fur.

Four pairs talented leather trousers are always a lively bucks on
my yard, and among them a beautiful bagpipe, which is now a lively
buck so musical shows that the trouser legs of each particular
candidate once he meckernd occurs among them, to dance against
each other and begin to trim, as they now felt their destination,
once with my legs after that hungarian bagpipe to dance. So I have
a new journey as a suitcase in my timber Wildsau around a magnificent
wolf's clothing gave me last winter in the form of six brave wolves
already in the body wanted the beasts had me a studious hole in the
chamber genagt because I went one right after the other through a
hole above the door with a full paint brush on the back and expect
them back soon to give them the fur on their ears to be drawn.

From such considerations, I saw the black cat and gave him, partly
because black as a negro was, partly because he did excellent Mores
had morals, or the name of Mores.

The cat followed me home and did so splendidly by catching mice,
and compatibility with my dogs excel, that I think him out of his
fur to distribute, was soon abandoned.

Mores was my constant companion, and at night he slept on a leather
chair beside my bed.

Oddly, I was particularly interested in the animals that, when I
jokingly him several times during the day from my wine glass to drink
offered is huge and I on the other hand, ruffled it once caught in
the basement, as is the tail into the bung hole and then hung with
ableckte the biggest appetite. Mores also distinguished himself
above all cats by his tendency to be washed, because otherwise his
family a hostility against the water. All these had the peculiarity
Mores in my neighborhood very famous, and I let him calm for me and
a walk, he drove to his own hand and cost me nothing but coffee,
he likes the dimensions soff. So I had my companions until around
Christmas always sleeping comrades had, as I do the last two
days and nights before Christmas saw materialize. I was already
accustomed to the idea that him any shooter game, maybe even my
Turkish border neighbor, let away or captured, and sent therefore a
servant over to the game dealer for some of the Mores auszukundschaften.
But the servant came back with the message that the game dealer from
my hangover not know that he just returned from a visit by Stambul
came back and his wife had a lot of beautiful cats have brought,
moreover, it was dear to him that he is from my excellent hangover
belongs, and he wanted all the way to seek him in his power to bring
him as an efficient Bassa for his seraglio lacking.

This message I received with annoyances on Christmas Eve and I
longed all the more so after my Mores, because I do not picaresque
Turkish treat.

I put myself in this evening to bed early because I am in the midnight
one hours after the road into the church wanted to go Metten.
My servant awoke me on due time, I placed my arms and hung on my
double rifle, with the grossest meals loaded in order. So I made
myself on the road, in the coldest winter night that I ever experienced,
I was wrapped like a Pelznickel, the burning tobacco pipe froze to me
several times that the fur around my neck from staring gefrornen my
breath like a porcupine, the solid snow creaked under my boots,
the wolves howled around my yard, and I commanded my servants, hunt
on it to make. So I was a bright star at night on the space came out
and saw in the distance an oak, on a small island in the middle of a
stand zugefrornen ponds and roughly half of the designated route,
which I had to Kirchdorf. As I heard a wonderful music and initially
thought it was about a train farmers, with a bagpipe is the way
to shorten the church, and so gradually, I too rough to get to these
people adapter. But the closer I came, great was ever curious
music that they dissolved into a Gewimmer, and already close to the
tree, I heard that music downloaded from the same schallte. I took
my gun in the hand that stretched the cock, and slipped over the pond
to the solid oak going, what I saw, what I heard? The hair stood on
end to me, the whole tree was completely horrible howling cats, and
in the crown enthroned sir Mores with crooked hump and blew on a
very miserable bagpipe, including the cats under tremendous yelling
at him through the branches danced. I was initially against terror
as petrifies, but soon tweaks me the sound of the bagpipes so weirdly
in the legs that I even began to dance and almost into a fishermen
carved Eisöffnung fell, but since sounded the bell Mette through
the bright night, I came to our senses, and shot the full charge
of my double-shot rifle in the dance chorus vermaledeiten inside,
and in the same moment, swept the entire dance company as a
hail of oak and down like a swarm of bees about me away so that I
have on the ice and ausglitt flat niederstürzte. When I aufraffte
was blank, and I surprised myself that I am not only one of the cats
taken in the tree took place. The whole trade had me so scared
and so strange is that I abandoned it, after the church to go and
I ran to my back yard and shot my gun several times in order to bring
my servants. It seams to me soon on this concerted characters,
and I told them my adventure, and one of them, an old, experienced
guy, said: "Your graces Sei'n just quiet, we will soon find the
cats, which have shot your grace."

I took me all sorts of thoughts and put myself at home, after I
startle at a warm wine was drunk, to bed.

Against the morning when I heard a noise, I awoke from restless
sleep, and see since my vermaledeiter Mores lag -- Scorched with
fur - as usual next to me on the leather chair.

It ran me a ferocious anger by all the members, "Passaveanelkiteremtete!"

I screamed, "vermaledelte Zauberkanaille! are you back?" and reached
for a pitchfork, which stood beside my bed, but the beast rushed me
to the throat and choked me and I screamed Zetermordio. My servants
ran with drawn Säbeln swept and not bad on my Mores, who on all the
walls went up, eventually the window zerstieß and the forest
zustürzte, where it was in vain, to follow the beast, but we were
certain that Mr. Mores part of his saber lashes weghabe to never
again on the Bagpipes to blow. I had shamefully scratched, and the
neck and face swelled awful to me. I had a call slavonian Viehmagd
who served with me to give me an envelope from her to cook, but she
was nowhere to be found, and I had to drive to the village, where a
Feldscher lived. When we came to the oak, where the
concert was the night, we saw a people that sit around us miserable
Hülfe sacrifice. I realized soon Mladka, the maid slavonian it was
half frozen with the skirts in the tree branches implicated, and
the blood ran down from it into the snow, but we saw traces of
blood because her where my cats thrown on the pile, according to
the forest. I knew now, as with the Slavonierin was designed, it was
hovering, that they did not touch the earth, the sausage wagon and
wear tie and went with haste after the village witch. When I arrived
at the surgeon, was also the vice-administrator and the pastor
of the village called, recorded everything, and the maid Mladka was
jailed, she is on her luck in the shot, which she in him had died,
otherwise it would certainly be on the pyre come.

She was a beautiful woman, and her skeleton is referred to the plague
as a kind of Cabinet beautiful growth patterns come it has also sincerely
repents and is among many tears have died. In their statements
should be several other Weibspersonen captured in the area, but we
found two dead in their beds, others had escaped. When I
was restored, I had a circle Commission on the Turkish border travel,
and we reported in our government with our game against the dealer,
but since we came in almost an even worse soup It was explained to
us that the game dealer and his wife and several Turkish, Serbian
and slavonian maids and slaves of shotgun shots and saber blows wounded
arrived at home, and that the game dealers had died with the words:
he was coming from a wedding on the border and attacked me had been
so prepared. While this was viewed, gathered a lot of people, and
the wild woman of the merchant with several women and maids, and
associated paved, raised a murderer clamor against us. The judge said
he could not protect us, we want to see that we fortkämen; because
we hurried after the yard, jumped on a horse, took the district
commissioner in the middle, I sat myself at the top of the six-Szekler
hussars to us had accompanied, and so we blasted, saber and pistol
in hand early enough to places beyond, in order not to suffer more
than a few stone-throwing and blind shots, a lot of Turkish curses
included. The Turks persecuted us to cross the border, but were
of the Szekler who sat in the forest, so prepared, that at least
a few of them in the game dealer Mahomed Paradise by the success
message will have. When I came home, was the first that I think
visitierte bagpipes, which I also Schroten with three holes behind
my bed is found. Mores was so on my own and was blown bagpipes from
him against my shot had been covered. I had the unfortunate story for
many trouble, I was widely heard on the record, there was a commission
after the other on my yard and was efficient wait, the Turks accused
of border violation, and I had it to me at the end still several
pieces of wild and quite costly to ensure that the Gerichtsplackerei
finally asleep after I and my servants were sworn. Nevertheless, I
was repeatedly investigated by Kreisphysikus whether I was completely
in mind, and this did not tend to be completely certain about,
until I gave him a pair of dual pistols and his woman Verbrämung of
black fox fur, and more efficient game roasts had sent.

So the matter was finally silent, but in order for something to
come my cost, I presented a tavern under the oak tree on the island
in the pond, where since the marginal farmers and neighbors from
the area on Sundays during the summer is a lot, and leather chair,
whereupon Mores slept, and I am a piece of his tail to him in the
servants of the night off, nailed have seen, the bagpipes, I can
fix, and my servant, where the landlord makes, maintains the top
of the Oak, where Mores sat, then the guests, who dance around the
tree, vorzuspielen.

I already have a nice money received, and if my lord would like to
visit there once, so they should certainly be well served.

This story, which the Croat with the whole expression of the truth
had argued, acted on the various ways in society .

The vice-administrator, the Tyrolean and the landlady had no doubts
and the Savoyarde revealed his delight that there is no example had
a groundhog had been a witch.

But,
since the summer of 1896, there has been ranked with these in my
remembrance the country of the Yellowstone. Two-thirds across this
continent, hidden away in the heart of the Rocky Mountains, eight
thousand feet above the level of the sea, there lies a marvelous
section of our earth, about one-half as large as the State of
Connecticut. On three sides this is guarded by lofty, well-nigh
inaccessible mountains, as though the Infinite Himself would not
allow mankind to rashly enter its sublime enclosure. In this respect
our Government has wisely imitated the Creator. It has proclaimed to
all the world the sanctity of this peculiar area. It has received it
as a gift from God and, as His trustee, holds it for the welfare of
humanity. We, then, as citizens of the United States, are its
possessors and its guardians. It is our National Park. Yet, although
easy of access, most of us let the years go by without exploring it!
How little we realize what a treasure we possess is proven by the
fact that, until recently, the majority of tourists here were
foreigners! I thought my previous store of memories was rich, but to
have added to it the recollections of the Yellowstone will give a
greater happiness to life while life shall last. Day after day, yes,
hour after hour, within the girdle of its snow-capped peaks I looked
upon a constant series of stupendous sights--a blending of the
beautiful and terrible, the strange and the sublime--which were,
moreover, so peculiar that they stand out distinct and different from
those of every other portion of our earth.

[Illustration: LONE STAR GEYSER.]

[Illustration: THE GROTTO, GEYSER'S CONE.]

[Illustration: ENTRANCE TO THE PARK.]

To call our National Park the "Switzerland of America" would be
absurd. It is not Switzerland; it is not Iceland; it is not Norway;
it is unique; and the unique cannot be compared. If I were asked to
describe it in a dozen lines, I should call it the arena of an
enormous amphitheatre. Its architect was Nature; the gladiators that
contended in it were volcanoes. During unnumbered ages those
gladiators struggled to surpass one another in destruction by pouring
forth great floods of molten lava. Even now the force which animated
them still shows itself in other forms, but harmlessly, much as a
captive serpent hisses though its fangs are drawn. But the volcanoes
give no sign of life. They are dead actors in a fearful tragedy
performed here countless centuries before the advent of mankind, with
this entire region for a stage, and for their only audience the sun
and stars.

I shall never forget our entrance into this theatre of sublime
phenomena. The Pullman car, in which we had taken our places at St.
Paul, had carried us in safety more than a thousand miles and had
left us at the gateway of the park. Before us was a portion of the
road, eight miles in length, which leads the tourist to the Mammoth
Springs Hotel. On one side an impetuous river shouted a welcome as we
rode along. Above us rose gray, desolate cliffs. They are volcanic in
their origin. The brand of fire is on them all. They are symbolic,
therefore, of the entire park; for fire and water are the two great
forces here which have, for ages, struggled for supremacy.

[Illustration: THE WATCHFUL SENTINEL.]

[Illustration: THE MAMMOTH SPRINGS HOTEL.]

No human being dwells upon those dreary crags, but at one point, as I
looked up at them, I saw--poised statue-like above a mighty pinnacle
of rock--a solitary eagle. Pausing, with outstretched wings above its
nest, it seemed to look disdainfully upon us human pygmies crawling
far below. Living at such a height, in voluntary isolation, that king
of birds appeared the very embodiment of strength and majesty. Call
it a touch of superstition, if you will, yet I confess it thrilled me
to the heart to find that here, above the very entrance to the
Wonderland of our Republic, there should be stationed midway between
earth and heaven, like a watchful sentinel, our national bird,--the
bird of freedom!

At length a sudden turn revealed to us our first halting-place within
the Park,--the Mammoth Springs Hotel. The structure in itself looked
mammoth as we approached it, for its portico exceeds four hundred
feet in length. Our first impressions were agreeable. Porters rushed
forth and helped us to alight, and on the broad piazza the manager
received us cordially. Everything had the air of an established
summer resort. This, I confess, surprised me greatly, as I had
expected primitive accommodations, and supposed that, though the days
of camping-out had largely passed away, the resting-places in the
Park were still so crude that one would be glad to leave them. But I
lingered here with pleasure long after all the wonders of the Park
had been beheld. The furniture, though simple, is sufficient; to
satisfy our national nervousness, the halls are so well-stocked with
rocking-chairs that European visitors look about them with alarm,
and try to find some seats that promise a more stable equilibrium;
the sleeping-rooms are scrupulously clean; soft blankets, snow-white
sheets, and comfortable beds assure a good night's rest; and the
staff of colored waiters in the dining-room, steam-heat, a bell-boy
service, and electric lights made us forget our distance from great
cities and the haunts of men. Moreover, what is true of this is true,
as well, of the other hotels within the Park; and when I add that
well-cooked food is served in all of them, it will be seen that
tourists need not fear a lengthy sojourn in these hostelries.

[Illustration: HALL OF THE MAMMOTH SPRINGS HOTEL.]

[Illustration: THE PHOTOGRAPHER'S HOUSE.]

[Illustration: MAMMOTH HOT SPRINGS.]

[Illustration: FORT YELLOWSTONE.]

Standing on the veranda of the Mammoth Hot Springs Hotel, I saw
between me and the range of mountains opposite a broad plateau, on
which were grouped a dozen neat and tasteful structures. The nun
who accompanied it forced me to finally break the silence. -
Mrs. Marquise gave me this bouquet of flowers and this letter
- I said, introducing both to take the Inés. - Ah, the branch for
the Holy Child Nursing! - said the old nun -. Mrs Countess does not
forget us. - I was also given a verbal message to Miss Agnes -
continue - and is to be prepared to leave the convent to go with her
to Madrid in a few days. - Oh, - said the old -.

Ms. Countess and Mrs.

Marquise do wrong in going against the devoted to this child. Why this
effort to bring it to Madrid, where she wants to leave wickedness and
abominations of the century! The poor do not want anyone but you
have promised your wife, who is our Lord Jesus Christ. - Mother
Transverberación - Agnes said with full voice - the chocolate and
pastries that have made grants yesterday to Mrs. Countess ,
where are they? Will brought his mercy - not by the way. - If you have
your mercy kindness to fetch a ride for this guy ... - Well you could
have brought - the growling old woman replied. - If Ms. Countess
do not receive this afternoon, he was furious, and it will be
difficult to convince me that I must never again this holy abode. - I
go for it ... what these girls!

Dejon alone Transverberación mother, and then spoke thus: - Inés
mine, I'm alive, I have risen. I came out alive from that pile of dead,
which we lost forever to our good friend Don Celestino. To see me live
without you, I thought that God was punishing me back to life, but
now that I find you, praise God because I see that not once, but twice,
gave me life. - Should I get out of here ? Should I do what I
send these ladies - I eagerly asked Agnes, because she feared the
return of the Mother Transverberación. - Yeah, Inés, get out of
here. Do what you send these ladies. What they say in the letter? -
Here, read it - he said, extending through the grid. In the parlor
of the little light I could read the letter, which stated, among other
things relating to class and chocolate, the following: "We hope that
will stop your stubbornness in practice.

We are resolutely opposed to this, and we do not want your entry
into the heart of this family is a sign of destruction of our home.

You said that we had determined to marry a young man of high lineage,
a project which lies in the happiness, greatness and luster
of the family to which it belongs. Everything is arranged, and
although it postponed because of the war, the end has to be, so if
you persist in practice, it fills us with pain. Do you not long
to serve as a comfort in our loneliness? Is not it the love
you profess? Do not want the seat belongs to you in our hearts and
in our house? My niece and I go to convince you, and therefore
have to travel to Madrid, where he will be with us because your
presence is essential to the proceedings of your legitimacy. "- Yeah,
go out - when he said Inés read the letter -. I do not want to be
more here. - So what, you were determined to practice - Yes, very
determined. I did not have more comfort that the idea of locked
up here forever.

When I came to Cordova ... what days and what journey I did not
know it was me.

I locked her in the convent ..., then these ladies came to tell who
was his niece ... ... kissed me, cried a lot ... the two, then said
they were going to marry me, and when I answered: "Well, as I
have here, I stay here all their lives, both are afflicted much ...
I frequently visit, accompanied by a man of age, which makes me a
thousand caresses and ensures much love, but I never assigned
to their pleas to leave. - And now? - The walls of the convent, I
fall over, and longing to leave. - But you'll be married!

- exclaimed indignantly -.

I want to marry, and not sink the world. Then he laughed, I think for
the first time since a long time, and spontaneous joy that I found
an expression of resurgent life. Inés left breast of the faculty of
the pile as I killed the Moncloa, and answered with a loving smile
to my complaints, I took from the tomb of the Order so that
the foot rash had gotten inside. Seeing laugh, I laugh and point,
ignoring the situation, we spoke with the confidence of those times
that our sentences did one. - Oh, kid! Now that you're archduchess and
archipámpana, do you want to shame - but what do they want from me
- she asked, getting sad again. - Look, princess, do what you send
these ladies: to obey all .

You would have already known the relationship you have with them.

God has you in its hands, accepts what God gives you, and He will
fix the rest. - Leave the convent - she said -.

Ouch! Not bit frightened when I heard Mother say. But since God does
not want me to be a nun. - I will not, and when I return
from the war ... - But you go to war? Boy, who you got yourself into
wars? - Well, what I do? Want a lifetime is raised? Listen, Agnes,
what happened to me a few days ago at the home of Mrs.
Condesa. I went to visit, and having committed the
indiscretion to tell you that I loved, was so enraged that I was
put on the front door. Inés crossed hands, then letting them fall with
dismay on her skirt, while raising his eyes to heaven, without
saying anything. - I am not only a servant, Agnes!

- I exclaimed, force to grip with the gate and shook, as if to make
pieces - not that I am more miserable a man of the streets,
unworthy to be watched by people in your category. After we split
up, look at what we are distant from each other. But do not think
I'm sorry, I like to see where you should be. - And you - I asked with
bewilderment. - I'll do what we must, Inesilla. Salt of this convent,
go with these ladies and wait calm, with the second of which
will go for you. If you have not changed ... so if you encounter
the same ...

Contestóme instantly by moving your index finger of one holes of
the grate.

I kissed him, he is very bit without thinking that she could not
contain a slight scream, a point that Mother Transverberación back
with chocolate and cakes. - What is it, girl - asked the old woman,
amazed to hear her scream. - No, Mother Transverberación.

This grid has a peak ... By moving the hand I hurt a finger -
said Agnes, sucking the juncture of the index finger and shaking after
the pain of pretending to scratch of course. - Here are the chocolate
and buns - added the nun -. Well, it's time to leave this boy, because
it is obscure and not have time to open the parlor. - Rabies'm about
to leave - replied -. Come here and that those chocolate buns, which
Ms. Marquise will be with the soul in such a thread waiting for good
things. And what I say to his mercy in reply to a message which I
bring? - That is fine - Ines replied, pressing his face against the
gate .-- I will send it to me, and when they want come for me,
I am ready to leave the monastery. - How's that, girl? - snarled
alarmed nun -. Do you want to leave! What Jesus thinks her future
husband when it reaches your ears as you said! And you know it
necessarily, because He is everywhere and hears everything.
Nothing, nothing - he said, leaning his nose to the fence -. Rapacious,
Mrs. Marquise tell you that she persists in its vocation, and if
they want to see you angry and anger bufando, who speak of the century
and its temptations. Agnes burst into a laugh so natural, so graceful,
so fresh, so joyous, that even the walls of the convent seemed
to rejoice at such joyful music. - What are those laughs so mundane
- Mother said Transverberación -.

It is the first time you are laughing at this so house.

What for so much joy ... Inside, girl, indoors, give part of this
unprecedented desenfado the Mother Abbess. Cerróse the parlor and went
off the road. Sentíame with new life with centuplicadas forces in
my spirit and my body; sentíame capable of all, the dedication
of the fight, even the heroism, and because the presence of the words
Agnes had opened unknown horizons, immense spaces in front of
me. XV Before arriving at the inn, loud noise of drums and bugles, I
announced the departure of the army. I ran to find my arms and my
horse, and before they notice my absence, and was in line with the
gentleman of the Count Rumble, Marijuán and others in the game. It
was already dark when we left, and all the people that took
part in spontaneous farewell feast of our thousands of lights lit our
way on balconies and doors; no woman stopped to greet you on the
fence, and no trousers, and all children fathered by one generation
left before fertile drums, accompanying us beyond the New Gate.
walked the whole night and the next day, leaving the Carpio, we deviate
from the real path of Andalusia, taking the right direction to
Bujalance. During this first day we met Santorcaz, who had left
Bailén to join their gang, and all gave us the glad to see you. -
Here I bring you many gifts that you send to your lady mother -
told my master, giving packages -. The lady was regret for not
having had news of you, and you asked me to be well-maintained. Did
the Count visits to Ms Mary commissioned - Punctually -
replied my master -. And you, why not come before? - What the devil!
With these things or who have no post carrying a letter. However,
I received the expected, and here I am at last looking like the others,
who stumble with the French. Since then Santorcaz was the main character
of the squad after the master, which he won place with ease
subjugator of their conversation.

Put it all into pleasing suesmero D.

Diego, easy to reach and always fixed to the side of it, quickly
captivated the minds of good men, we already extraordinary feats and
facts, and suggesting with his fertile imagination for ideas and
concepts drive to a couple of spark, but well behind in their
intellectual development. And all these, my lords, not a word I have
said that army, or its odd composition, but now serve, that far
from being late, is this is the situation conducive to do so, as saying:
"Everything in its time, and turnips in Advent." The basis of the
army of Andalusia was in troops from the field of San Roque, sent by
Brown, and the then don Teodoro Reding brought from Granada.
Comprising the best of our infantry line, with some very good horses
and artillery, not to exceed the number thirteen to fourteen thousand
men. Agregáronse some provincial regiments and countrymen who
spontaneously or by order of the Boards are hooked in the main
cities of Andalusia. Is difficult to know the exact figure that rose
to the armed forces, but surely there were many, because the call
had called all the young men from sixteen to forty-five years, single,
widowed and married without children, five feet one inch, measured
barefoot. Besides the well useless, as lame, Mancos, blind, etc..,
Except those who were pregnant or had exercised his public office,
and the Epistle of sorted, but there was no exception because of
the crop or field work.

The only disapproved of the rows, without having those doubts, were
_negros, mulattoes, butchers, verdugos_ and _pregoneros_.

With paisanos thus created Seville five battalions and two cavalry
regiments, the battalion commanded Cadiz shooters that bears his
name, and the cities and villages of Utrera, Jerez, Osuna, Carmona,
Jaen, Montoro and Goat infantry and sent body number of irregular
cavalry.

This increased the army, but had yet to grow a little more than that
began to be dwarf and giant terrible, if not for his size, his
strength. The Spanish soldiers that the Government of Madrid joined
divisions Moncey of Vedel Lefebvre iban or fleeing their treasonous
ranks as they had occasion to do so, so, to verify that those armies
marching to their mountainous landscapes or broken, they saw that the
Spaniards were fleeing by the fingers, as the saying goes.
Deserters came to swell the troops of the army of Blake, or
the cost of the chestnut, and many Carmona and Cordova
arrived, escaped from the ranks of Moncey, and almost everyone who
made the campaign with Junot Portugal. Those officers and soldiers,
to break the discipline that the literal subject to invading France
to attend the call of moral discipline of his oppressed homeland,
made the trip in disguise, walk over to the high mountains and
burning plains, to find a core of strength Spanish.

Daba shame to see them get torn, barefoot and hungry, but his joy
for being in the end they had invaded land not forget all the sorrows.
With these deserters, among whom were guards Corps, Walloons, gunners
and engineers, our army has increased a bit. But even grew a little
more. The Board of Seville had pardoned the May 15 all the smugglers
and that were not punished for the crimes of murder, treachery,
or against human or divine majesty, and this brought about a game,
if that was not the best troops of World by their customs, however
was not afraid to fight, and highly disciplined army gave excellent
soldiers. Ibros, famous place in the splendor of smuggling; Jandulilla,
Campillo de Arenas, and other locations, later delivered to the
sword and the Guardia Civil Police, sent respectable squads,
with the particularity that come armed to the teeth, and all
around gentleman of good temper, they knew where they poured the mouth
of Trabuco were reputedly very effective auxiliary army. Bodies
Spanish regulations, with some Swiss and Walloon; line regiments,
who were the flower of Spanish troops, provincial regiments,
ignoring the war, but that they would learn, honest fellow, mostly
highly skilled in the art of hunting, and generally threw admirably
and, finally, smugglers, rascals, bums in the mountains, Chulilla of
Cordoba, loafers become warriors in the heat of that fire that inflames
the patriotic country, lost and marauders, who were serving the
national cause their evil arts, good and bad, noble and ignoble as the
country had, since its overall good to the last Pelaires del Potro
of Cordova, fellow countryman and blankets to those Sancho: these
were the elements of the army of Andalusia.

It was formed from what existed: that came to compose the great
mass flower and the scum of the nation, nothing was hidden, because
the fermentation took him out to the entire surface, and the crater
of our revenge sputum as the pure fire that stinking lava.

Removed within the homeland, drove him they had engendered in the
glorious centuries and degenerate, and not reaching to defend with
one arm, he worked with the right and left brandishing a sword with
that history and the knife with him.

As for uniforms and costumes, habíalos of all known forms.

It is a marvel how that was equipped army of peasants in sixteen
days.

The current Administration, with all its resources, is a tailor made
website compared to those who set in motion millions of needles in
two weeks. In a state that history has not thought worthy of your pages,
but it still exists, although forgotten, is the number of pieces of
clothing that did free the nuns and ladies of Seville. He says: "For
the Communities and ladies of distinction have 3335 shirts, trousers
and 1768 Casaca of 167 soldiers; 1001 shirts, 312 pants, 700 jackets
sergeant; cloth booties 374, 149 sacks of cavalry, and 16 bags
1684 cockades. 'The ladies of Alcolea, from Carmona, Lora del Rio
and other towns included in the figures is similar. This diversity
of hands in the shape of dress indicates that the voice _uniforme_,
with regard to volunteers, was a vain word. Beside the Casaca
flap black with white, crimson or blue wearing the bulk of the
regiments of line next to the Levites who were wearing blue belt
Walloons and Swiss saw the blazers brown cloth that covered his
colecticia people. Among the high morriones of artillery and grenadiers
of hats, drew our attention Portuguese white hats, caps and
barracks, and touched countless classes covering their Chollas
shooters and village volunteers. As I said before, that army was
laugh. And the money for the war? Cause how laughter is now a
pumpkin minister for _arbitrar_, to another war, a few million that
nobody wants to give up if no mortgage pingajo the last of the nation.
Learning, selfish generations. Leed lists of donations made by the
unions, by traders, for the noble and even beggars. That it was
raining! Of money, and bring lots without a Realito fleece
or escaping through the holes of the basket administrative! In the
list of donations is a poignant line that reads: "Mrs.

Countess Montelirio widow has his _toaleta_ of silver, expressing
the feeling that its not achieve as much as his will.

"Is there today who gives his _toaleta_ ...

XVI Our march Cañete de las Torres in direction of the Salado River
was a real triumphal ride better, it hardly seemed marchábamos,
because the people of peoples, including women, elderly and Chicuelo,
we continued on either side of the road, improvising festivals and
dances all the stops.

When the army stopped, apparently eclipsábanse all the evils of the
homeland, because the troops, regaining the good mood in the camp
became an event. I do not know where it came from so many guitars,
I could not comprehend what those bodies are made so tireless in
dance as exercise, or what were the harsh metal throats, to be
as constant in the shout and sing. As the first week of July we
missed abundant food, we passed it well and Neither encounter with
the French established, but very worried, across the river at all,
especially the inexperienced, the war seemed a sweet occupation. Above
all, the Rumble from condesito not fit in their shoes pure jubilant,
and with the touch of so many different people would be awake by
far, came to acquire a rid a person of their own it did not have
before. Santorcaz, as I said, had made tremendous outreach in a short
time on D. Diego, so that our mozalbete As pointed out by, and consulted
with him. Marijuán, however, made friends with a server you, and
always together in the marches and the rest, we contábamos our
things, commiserate and consoling each other. We two alone, and
not to inform anyone, we ate chocolate and the Divine Mother's
rolls Transverberación. The whole army was very eager to come to
blows with _canalla_.

As there are around camp, in addition to the supreme council which
is held at the General Store, consejillos as many groups of soldiers
are spread here and there, in the canteen or satin field to throw
a line or throw a couple of letters, we always were elucidated in
large are more or less the eternal question of our meeting with the
French.

How many times, meeting with a drum, where he had a jug of wine,
provided the passage of the river, the attack of the enemy in his
position Andújar, and other feats of the same meal!

One day, while in Porcuna and then we joined the army Reding decided,
after hot debate, which were general and not knowing what harebrained
plan to adopt. The Count of Rumbles said he was going to write his
master D. Paco, who told you to suit most operations, but as with
all streams of this occurrence, we are Généralités amoscó and
it was a console with its endless adulation Lieutenant Santorcaz.
Finally, after long held by the council was generally iban said to be
distributed to the divisions to take the offensive immediately. That
day, that was, if I remember correctly, 12 or July 13, I first saw
General Castaños, when we reviewed.

Seemed to be fifty years, and indeed that his face surprised me because
I was so fierce in countenance and ceñudo, according to my
understanding in general should have everything put in front of the
head as brave troops.
Beside them always flows a
river which carries off the boiling water to the outer world.

[Illustration: THE NORRIS BASIN.]

[Illustration: A PLACE OF DANGER.]

No illustration can do justice to what is called the Norris Basin,
but it is horrible enough to test the strongest nerves. Having full
confidence in our guide (the Park photographer) we ventured with him,
outside the usual track of tourists, and went where all the money of
the Rothschilds would not have tempted us to go alone. The crust
beneath our feet was hot, and often quivered as we walked. A single
misstep to the right or left would have been followed by appalling
consequences. Thus, a careless soldier, only a few days before, had
broken through, and was then lying in the hospital with both legs
badly scalded. Around us were a hundred vats of water, boiling
furiously; the air was heavy with the fumes of sulphur; and the whole
expanse was seamed with cracks and honeycombed with holes from which
a noxious vapor crept out to pollute the air. I thought of Dante's
walk through hell, and called to mind the burning lake, which he
describes, from which the wretched sufferers vainly sought to free
themselves.

[Illustration: A CAMPING-STATION.]

Leaving, at last, this roof of the infernal regions, just as we again
stood apparently on solid ground, a fierce explosion close beside
us caused us to start and run for twenty feet. Our guide laughed
heartily. "Come back," he said, "don't be afraid. It is only a baby
geyser, five years old." In fact, in 1891, a sudden outburst of
volcanic fury made an opening here, through which, at intervals of
thirty minutes, day and night, hot water now leaps forth in wild
confusion.

"This, then, is a geyser!" I exclaimed.

"Bah!" said the guide, contemptuously, "if you had seen the real
geysers in the Upper Basin, you would not look at this."

[Illustration: A BABY GEYSER.]

Meantime, for half an hour we had been hearing, more and more
distinctly, a dull, persistent roar, like the escape of steam from a
transatlantic liner. At last we reached the cause. It is a mass of
steam which rushes from an opening in the ground, summer and winter,
year by year, in one unbroken volume. The rock around it is as black
as jet; hence it is called the Black Growler. Think of the awful
power confined beneath the surface here, when this one angry voice
can be distinctly heard four miles away. Choke up that aperture, and
what a terrible convulsion would ensue, as the accumulated steam
burst its prison walls! It is a sight which makes one long to lift
the cover from this monstrous caldron, learn the cause of its
stupendous heat, and trace the complicated and mysterious aqueducts
through which the steam and water make their way.

[Illustration: THE BLACK GROWLER.]

Returning from the Black Growler, we halted at a lunch-station, the
manager of which is Larry. All visitors to the Park remember Larry.
He has a different welcome for each guest: "Good-day, Professor. Come
in, my Lord. The top of the morning to you, Doctor." These phrases
flow as lightly from his tongue as water from a geyser. His station
is a mere tent; but he will say, with most amusing seriousness:
"Gintlemen, walk one flight up and turn to the right, Ladies, come
this way and take the elevator. Now thin, luncheon is ready. Each
guest take one seat, and as much food as he can get."

"Where did you come from, Larry?" I asked.

[Illustration: LARRY.]

"From Brooklyn, Sor," was his reply, "but I'll niver go back there,
for all my friends have been killed by the trolley cars."

Larry is very democratic. The other day a guest, on sitting down to
lunch, took too much room upon the bench.

"Plaze move along, Sor," said Larry.

The stranger glared at him. "I am a Count," he remarked at last.

"Well, Sor," said Larry, "here you only count wun!"

"Hush!" exclaimed a member of the gentleman's suite, "that is Count
Schouvaloff."

"I'll forgive him that," said Larry, "if he won't shuffle off this
seat," Pointing to my companion. Larry asked me: "What is that
gintleman's business?"

"He is a teacher of singing," I answered.

[Illustration: LARRY'S LUNCH-STATION.]

"Faith," said Larry, "I'd like to have him try my voice. There is
something very strange about my vocal chords. Whenever I sing, the
Black Growler stops. One tourist told me it was a case of
professional jealousy, and said the Black Growler was envious of my
_forte_ tones. 'I have not forty tones,' I said, 'I've only one
tone,' 'Well,' says he, 'make a note of it!'"

[Illustration: THE BISCUIT BASIN.]

Only once in his life has Larry been put to silence. Two years ago, a
gentleman remarked to him: "Well, Larry, good-by; come and visit me
next winter in the East. In my house you shall have a nice room, and,
if you are ill, shall enjoy a doctor's services free of all expense."

"Thank you," said Larry, "plaze give me your card."

The tourist handed it to him; and Larry, with astonishment and
horror, read beneath the gentleman's name these words:
"Superintendent of the Insane Asylum, Utica, New York."

Some hours after leaving Larry's lunch-station, we reached another
area of volcanic action. Our nerves were steadier now. The close
proximity to Hades was less evident; yet here hot mineral water had
spread broadcast innumerable little mounds of silica, which look so
much like biscuits grouped in a colossal pan that this is called the
Biscuit Basin; but they are not the kind that "mother used to make."
If a tourist asked for bread here, he would receive a stone; since
all these so-called biscuits are as hard as flint. We walked upon
their crusts with perfect safety; yet, in so doing, our boots grew
warm beneath our feet, for the water in this miniature archipelago is
heated to the boiling point.

[Illustration: A GEYSER POOL.]

"Show me a geyser!" I at last exclaimed impatiently, "I want to see a
genuine geyser." Accordingly our guide conducted us to what he
announced as "The Fountain." I looked around me with surprise. I saw
no fountain, but merely a pool of boiling water, from which the light
breeze bore away a thin, transparent cloud of steam. It is true,
around this was a pavement as delicately fashioned as any piece of
coral ever taken from the sea. Nevertheless, while I admired that, I
could not understand why this comparatively tranquil pool was called
a geyser, and frankly said I was disappointed. But, even as I spoke,
I saw to my astonishment the boiling water in this reservoir sink and
disappear from view.

"Where has it gone?" I eagerly inquired.

"Stand back!" shouted the guide, "she's coming."

[Illustration: "A CLOUD-BURST OF JEWELS."]

I ran back a few steps, then turned and caught my breath; for at that
very instant, up from the pool which I had just beheld so beautiful
and tranquil, there rose in one great outburst of sublimity such a
stupendous mass of water as I had never imagined possible in a
vertical form. I knew that it was boiling, and that a deluge of those
scalding drops would probably mean death, but I was powerless to
move. Amazement and delight enchained me spellbound. Talk of a
fountain! This was a cloud-burst of the rarest jewels which, till
that moment, had been held in solution in a subterranean cavern, but
which had suddenly crystallized into a million radiant forms on thus
emerging into light and air. The sun was shining through the
glittering mass; and myriads of diamonds, moonstones, pearls, and
opals mingled in splendid rivalry two hundred feet above our heads.

[Illustration: THE OBLONG GEYSER.]

We soon approached another of the many geysers in the basin. They are
all different. Around one, a number of colored blocks, exquisitely
decorated by the geyser's waves, appeared to have been placed
artistically in an oblong frame. When I first beheld them, they
looked like huge sea-monsters which, startled by our footsteps, were
about to plunge into the depths.

What is there in the natural world so fascinating and mysterious as a
geyser? What, for example, is the depth of its intensely-colored pool
of boiling water? No one can tell. One thing, however, is certain;
the surface of the pool is but the summit of a liquid column. Its
base is in a subterranean reservoir. Into that reservoir there flows
a volume of cold water, furnished by the rain or snow, or by
infiltration from some lake, or river. Meantime, the walls of the
deep reservoir are heated by volcanic fire. Accordingly the water, in
contact with these walls, soon begins to boil, and a great mass of
steam collects above it. There must, of course, be some escape for
this, and, finally, it makes its exit, hurling the boiling water to a
height of one or two hundred feet, according to the force of the
explosion. Imagine, then, the amount of water that even one such
reservoir contains; for some of these volcanic fountains play for
more than half an hour before their contents are discharged! Also
coming from Cyrenaica rose water and other strong smelling plants
to flowering Products were much sought, and essences to produce,
even today, you needed only the hand, fragrant, highly fragrant
flowers are everywhere, geraniums, violas, etc.

Artemisien pregnant on the air with flowering their fragrances. can
be found on wild edible plants throughout and in excellent quality,
the artichoke and truffle, the latter is already by Pliny under the
name Misy mentioned.

By the elderly as one of the trees by hanging fragrant fruit,
spagnus, I do not explain.

But above all, of the Colonie Reichthum respectively, was the
Sylphium, a plant from which we have on the old coins cyrenaïschen
pretty good pictures .

Also, we find the same with a lot of the old writers mention the
Theil described.

All travelers now della cella [3], Beechey, Pacho, Barth, etc., etc.,
have this plant in the day of the onlyborn referred Drias (bot:
thapsia garganica called) want to recognize. At the time Cellas
della named him the country's inhabitants, the same plant, Coinon.

And it can not be denied that the plant with the illustrations show
similarity, even though it is no parables, not only similarity with
the inner part shows the same but, as we shall see, with many
features which we expect the same in said the old place.

In recent times Dr.

Schroff is now in Vienna [4] occurred on the other hand, this, by the
properties of the Thapsia garganica not with the Old mentioned law
holds, then Ørsted [5] which mainly Drias not recognize the old
Sylphium wants, because his designs are not for this plant is
accurate.

Professor Ørsted vindicirt Narthex asa foetida, as the old Silphium,
glaubend that the properties of these Ambilifore most concerned
with the Silphium and the pictures of the coins match.

The
feebler action of the Castle shows the waning powers of old age. Last
of all comes the closed cone, like a sealed sarcophagus, and that is
death.

[Illustration: THE CASTLE AND THE BEEHIVE IN ACTION.]

Meantime, the thirty minutes of expectancy had passed; and, suddenly,
with a tremendous rush of steam, the Castle proved that its resources
were by no means exhausted. At the same instant, half a mile away,
the Beehive Geyser threw into the air a shaft of dazzling spray fully
two hundred feet in height. I realized then, as never before, the
noble action of our Government in giving this incomparable region to
the people. If this had not been done, the selfishness and greed of
man would have made a tour here almost unbearable. A fence would,
doubtless, have been built around every geyser, and fees would have
been charged to witness each wonderful phenomenon; whereas, to-day,
thanks to the generosity of Congress, the Park itself, and everything
that it contains, are absolutely free to all, rich and poor, native
and foreigner,--forever consecrated to the education and delight of
man.

[Illustration: THE CRATER OF OLD FAITHFUL.]

But no enumeration of the geysers would be complete without a mention
of the special favorite of tourists, Old Faithful. The opening
through which this miracle of Nature springs is at the summit of a
beautifully ornamented mound, which is itself a page in Nature's
wonder-book. The lines upon its wrinkled face tell of a past whose
secrets still remain a mystery. It hints of an antiquity so vast that
one contemplates it with bated breath; for this entire slope has been
built up, atom after atom, through unnumbered ages; during which
time, no doubt, the geyser hour by hour has faithfully performed its
part, without an eye to note its splendor, or a voice to tell its
glory to the world. Old Faithful does not owe its popularity entirely
to height or beauty, though it possesses both. It is beloved for its
fidelity. Whatever irregularities other geysers show, Old Faithful
never fails. Year in, year out, winter and summer, day and night, in
cold and heat, in sunshine and in storm, Old Faithful every
seventy minutes sends up its silvery cascade to the height of about
one hundred and eighty feet. Of all the geysers known to man this is
the most reliable and perfect. Station yourself before it watch in
hand and, punctual to the moment, it will never disappoint you. Few
realize on how large a scale the forces of Nature work here. At each
eruption, Old Faithful pours forth about one million five hundred
thousand gallons, or more than thirty-three million gallons in one
day! This geyser alone, therefore, could easily supply with water a
city of the size of Boston.

[Illustration: CASTLE AND OLD FAITHFUL GEYSERS.]

[Illustration: OLD FAITHFUL IN ACTION.]

Within this area of the active geysers is a place called Hell's Half
Acre. It is rightly named. Rough, perpendicular ledges project over a
monstrous gulf of unknown depth, from which great clouds of steam are
constantly emerging. When the wind draws back for a moment a portion
of this sulphur-laden curtain, the visitor perceives a lake below,
seething and boiling from internal heat. In addition, the Oasis is
just as well the first beginning of vegetation, which is already
in the wells Tarfaya begins and far to the east of Siuah than
Hattieh continues, expect, or just take a closer oasis, in the
west which starts at Maragi and in the east end Muley Yus. The latter
extension has a length of approximately 4 German miles, so that the
direction of Maragi to Siuah almost N.-W. S.-O. after which Siuah
under Muley Yus from S.-W. after N.-O. deletes. From numerous Sebcha
and Hattieh interrupted, you will find the palm gardens, however,
none of which in the width direction of more than 2 kilometers extension
has. On the southern edge of the steep, limestone from the existing
so-called Libyan coastal plateau, is the oasis in the south by
high sand dunes are not limited . In the oasis itself several steep
cliffs from which the Amelal and W. Djari in such Siuah of NO,
and two hours away, when two large vertical witnesses at an altitude
of approximately 100 meters are the most important.

The Dj.

Muta, 1 km north of Siuah that the site itself, Agermi finally Dj.

Hammed ½ hour for S. W. of the main places, and the five-Dj.

Brick one hours southeast of Siuah are other such witnesses. The
terrain, originally salty and sebchaartig is through the numerous
sweet sources from which it is in the oasis of over 30 giebt [38],
in the areas of these sources culturfähig become. The most famous of
all, but no longer the most productive (this is Chamisa, the source
of Moses is stronger), is Ain hammam, pigeons source, which we
still according to old traditions source called the sun. It has
about 110 steps in the scale [39], we noticed at the bottom masonry.
It has only one main drain, which is then divided into different
arms and different directions zerspaltet. After the sun had Diodor
source his name is because the temperature of water in inverse
relationship to the sun's heat was, according to the scientific
companion of Alexander, was the source of the sun at noon cold,
midnight hot, and morning and evening lau.

If so, the elderly, their observations on the mere feeling of
immersion in water helped, generally alternating temperature as a
certainty Thatsache accepted, and the wound it gave statements, so
it is surprising that both Minutoli as Gruoc still a all physical
laws contradicting believe could vary temperature.

Bayle St.

John and Hamilton, which incidentally was only one chance, at the
time of day their thermometers in the sun to dip source, the
former were 84 ° F., the latter 85 ° F. My all times of day and night
observations were made immutable 29 ° C. [40], once only by 2
clock afternoon, I noticed an increase of 0.5 °, which is very
probably on the high air temperature around the time can be
pushed. My observations thus agree with those of two Englishmen very
well. For all other sources, notably in the Ain and Ain Mussa
ben Lif, what an investigation often been subjected to heat, I
noticed the same degree.

The onlyborn itself is about a changing temperature of the unknown
sources, but they write some sources, including the Ain Hendeli
certain healing powers. Although, especially if the salt water
in the desert has become accustomed, has a pleasant taste,
the water is saltier than the sources to our rivers. St. John, which
is water from the spring sunshine brought, and investigate made
by PricewaterhouseCoopers, found the leak of water to 1.0015 [41],
the Thames to 1.0003. In 100 Theilen contained the spring sun 0.23950
(the Thames water contains 0.032932) solid Theile, and these were
common salt 0.1615. There is no reason that the other sources of
different composition should be, because all the press probably
derived from the same underground Süsswasserschicht, hervorgepresst
by the pressure from the Libyan desert plateau.

All show the same appearance of the Blasenaufsteigens as if the
water boil, and in this respect the greatest similarity with the
source in Rhadames.

Most major sources have an artificial, rounded rectangular frame,
with many well preserved.

Notably, the Ain Mussa and Ain ben Lif today with so well-preserved
in the district laid limestone blocks and surrounded that
one should believe that these buildings, which at least 2000 years
old, yesterday would have been prepared. From Siuah from the sun is
the source a little hour east, Ain Mussa half an hour northeast,
Ain ben Lif, just southwest of the places themselves, and Ain
Hendeli the northwest foot of the Dj. Brick. The climate would be
the Oasis of Jupiter Ammon certainly a very healthy, as everywhere
in the Sahara Desert, if not the many swamps and Sebcha, the
mixing of fresh and salt water, which is decaying organic matter,
especially in late summer, the worst cause fever.

Admittedly, the claim onlyborn however insensitive to, and believe
only those strangers was dangerous season, the great mortality
prevailing in Siuah however, the unhealthy, Fahle appearance of the
children, enough to prove the opposite Theil.

One is not wrong, when the average temperature in Siuah to 25 ° C.
and perhaps even a few degrees higher acceptance. The deep location
of the place, the protection provided by the plateau of northern
winds granted, allow a higher temperature than at other places the
same width can be found easily explainable. The sky is almost always
clean, just the morning fog sometimes come from the Mediterranean
seas, rain, but here are exceptionally well as in all other Theilen
of the great desert. With a rich vegetation as cover, where the
Süsswasserquellen [42], the main plant, the date palm , as in all
the oases of the Sahara, and also in different varieties, there is
not. Above all, as are excellent varieties Rhaselli Sultani and
praised, and make itself a major export article to Egypt. The
number of date palms was in excess of 300000, although the
official count significantly less angiebt. This is already evidenced
in good years after Minutoli to 9000 Kameelladungen, of 3 Ctr., Can
be obtained. On other trees, is especially noteworthy in olive tree,
the unseen here in pomp and flourishes freshness.

However, both the palms, as well as other fruit trees from time to
time with Agol fertilized, which is to thick bundles compressed to
the roots of the trees is considered.

Only Chamisa thrive oranges and limes, but equally lush vines,
shells, apricot, peaches, plums and apples (the apples, however,
are crippled type).

What of the old trees still mentioned as Cyperus species, the tree
Elate and other fragrant resin by giving trees, so the same today in
the oasis and the area is not available, and are also well despite
the good authors of the earlier Alterthums not been available, because
the climatic conditions it Wachsthum not allowed. At vegetables
is considered quite the same as in Audjila, but even here culturfähiges
enough land is available, and irrigation is almost entirely by itself
does so, the yield of cereals is not long for the consumer of the
residents out, and as in all oases is also the date the
Eintauschmittel. The appointment of the gardens is of course a long
way with so many troubles linked, as in the oases, where the pull of
water from wells, the land must be irrigated, the water is
also of the many sources so plentiful that not even a sparse
dimensions time as the source of Rhadames or the Fogorat in Tuat needs
to be seen. In the Oasis of Jupiter Ammon, the water is relatively
so abundant, as in Tafilet and Üd Draa, creeks pour in from
different directions according to the sources, and needs are then
led into the gardens. The animal kingdom is equally sparse, as
in the Audjila oases, sheep and goats from the north nomadisirenden
Arabs introduced donkeys from Egypt, some cows are out in the northeastern
Hattie held as a dangerous brake, which is in the whole North African
lowland resident, is harmful to the animals. For this reason
also the Siuahner no Kameele, although the Agolweiden in the oasis
of excellent food for competence.

These flies, which also occurs throughout Central Africa, is of
gray color, the size of a honey bee, and torturing people and animals
as much, the trick is generated on the site of bleeding, but no
swelling, but it is not to be confused with the much more dangerous
ZETS fly, which so far to the north not vorkömmt.

Gross is the number of small wild wood pigeon, which is in the olive
trees and palms herumtummeln, and since this particular source close
to the sun, and so the pigeons welcome shade and protection, the
onlyborn the source with the Arabic name 'Ain el hammam "Pigeons
source shows.

As other natural product, we have only to mention the salt, which
consists of the Sebcha won.

In winter seeps from these highly saline water on the surface, and
after evaporation in the summer remains a salt crust, which
in some places the thickness of several customs reached. The
salt krystallisirt often in several thick finger and finger-long
pieces of beautiful white color. That brought me in Berlin von
Baeyer investigated salt from the oasis Ammons contains 59.26 Proc.
Chlorine (pure salt contains 60.66 Proc.) Has used approximately
97.5 Proc. Saline. In addition, there were traces of magnesia, and
low in the water-insoluble substances. The Alterthum already
known in the medical sal ammoniacum is not to be confused with
this, this was artificially by the distillation of Kameelmist won,
while that a natural product of the oasis of Jupiter Ammon is. What
the people are concerned that these desert island inhabited and
inhabited so we can find only at Herodot the message that it is a
mongrel nation from Egypt and Ethiopia, and his language was a
composite.

If this is the time Herodotus was the case, it probably changed
over time.

The fanatical Islam had all the residents there probably is accelerated.
In the 12th Century, says Edrisi, existirten in the small oases
no inhabitants, but he Siuah populated with Muslims. Makrisi leads
Santaria or Siuah with just 600 inhabitants of Berber. And if today
we the people should classificiren, so we would have without
doubt the great Berber tribe beizählen, which is located in
the desert is most pure in the Tuareg and Northern Africa, most pure
on the northern slope of the great Atlas, and in the Rif Mountains in
Djurdjura receive has. The language of Siuahner is nothing but a
Dialect of Tamasirht, and without making an effort Targi, an atlas
or a Rhadamser residents with today's sons of Jupiter Ammon
understandable [43]. Of the missing Siuahs those male residents,
almost Greek beauty of the Tuareg and Atlas inhabitants, including
their color is much darker, without, however, like to be Negro.

This has its reason, but only in the strong mixing with Negro blood,
of which Atlas and Tuareg residents included.

But all other Berbers in the desert, who live in houses and some with
the equivalent Siuahnern Maass: the Uadjili, Soknaui, Rhadamsi,
Tuati, Filali Draui and are characterized by their strong mixing with
Negroes become ugly. During my attendance at Siuah I saw, with the
exception of young layers Hammed, the brother Omar layers, not one
man, one would only be able to say that he would have been nice, not
nice to talk to. Protruding cheekbones, bulging lips, broad nose,
almost as many with curly, like with simple hair, black piercing eyes,
tanned skin color in almost lean physique, which is the image
of a modern Siuahner.

But their language is pure, the Berber language, if not Islam, and
some other circumstances have forced them, arabic words incorporated,
as indeed all the other Berber peoples who adopted the Koran, have
done.

As in all Muslim Oerter, it is difficult , something specific about
the number of people to learn. In 8000 residents Minutoli be at 6
strains vertheilt indicated, Hamilton, my predecessor, counts
only half, 4000 inhabitants. Dovretti for Siuah alone has 2500 souls.
The Siuahner even gave me the number of weapons on 600 men and 800
men male slaves for the whole population, resulting in a total
population of 5600 souls would result. From House of fanatic and
ignorant, it seems, especially in the last 10 years, a strange
reversal proceeded with them to be, and mostly this is probably the
obstinate attributable to relations with Egypt. The two main tribes
Lifaya and currently have a Rharbyin layers: the Lifaya a certain Omar,
the Rharbyin a certain Hallok in Agermi Mohammed Djari is also head
of the onlyborn.

The Lifaya fall into three sub-tribes, as well as the Rharbyin, one
of which is established in Agermi.

Of course, since one of Egypt ordered the government Mudir represents
the power of layers a very limited, and it affects only the most
intimate affairs of the family.

The inhabitants of the oasis disdain nor to benefit from the Lakbi
and Araki, like the other islanders of the Libyan desert, they only
hide the stranger her alcoholism, and if their words would be
believed, it would have a Siuahner never seen Lakbi.

The marriage is therefore not better, and where travelers claim
Unverheirathete Wittwer and should not in itself Siuah live, this is
apparently a misunderstanding. The actual location Siuah is so
closely built, and the houses of poor material is so high that no
more space for ongoing construction there. In this way are
Sebucha, Menschia and place in S.-W. from the actual castle Siuah
were, strictly speaking, these are only a whole neighborhoods. The
rich people dress very elegantly, by type of Kahiriner wealthy
merchants and the ordinary man to bear, as in other oases. For
women is consistently the blue dress of the Fellah-traditional women
in Egypt, as a peculiar, I noticed that they like the women
in Central Africa niederhocken and her face turned away, as soon
as they meet a man. When Muslims pay homage to the rite malekitischen
and the language they have, among themselves Berber speaking,
almost entirely in Arabic to the Egyptian Dialect, in the letter
but keep it in the Maghreb spelling.

Religious guilds are three represented: Snussi, Madani and Abd
Salamin of Mesurata.

The Snussi the jüngstentstandenen are most numerous. In addition to
the aforementioned places Chamisa, the main town as a haven Siuah
who sat in the barracks-like buildings in the mountain and S.-W. from
the town of Theil Rharbyin disintegrates, finally in the north-east,
close to Sebucha, including Rharbyin inhabited, and still half a
kilometer further to N.-O. Lifaya inhabited by the city Menschia. The
other place in N.-O., a small hour of Siuah away, is Agermi from
Rharbyin inhabited. In earlier times there was usually Agermi war
between the castle and Siuah, since the Egyptian government has
fixed the foot, the feuds bloodless Art Concerning the total trade
Siuahs concerned, it is the same low, which has long Siuahner not
the spirit of enterprise Modjabra, its furthest traveling Alexandria
and Cairo, after Audjila or Bengasi, after Fesan or Sudan, he never.

However, as an intermediate station has always been important, it
has relatively Siuah lot of money.

From some Producten they just oil [44] and Datteln after Egypt,
and often exchange their own needs are situated. The slave
trade betheiligen they are only indirect, by Modjabra usually here
with their squad for a long stay to ensure the well-fed and fat
slave to the Egyptian market. The residents do not understand
anything about fabriciren if you are not baskets, plates and mats
made of raffia palm branches and then expect, how it in any other
haven, and even better made. However, it is the main giebt craftsmen
fitters, blacksmiths, shoemakers, tailors, carpenters provide for
the essential needs of the residents. The charges, which the Egyptian
Government applies, are not excessively large, because 10000
M.-Th-Thaler a year is certainly not too much for a population of
5-6000 souls with rich woods and palm gardens, this oasis as it has.
Admittedly are still probably some blackmail Besides three go Mudir
demands of his Bakschisch, the Kadhi speaks only right, if he so and
so much under his carpet sets, but that is standard in all Muslim
countries, and the Siuahner have no reason to the Egyptian government
to be dissatisfied.

As I have already mentioned, it was me in the Kasr quartered, which
located to the north, below the castle of Siuah, one of the best
housing was in front of the house there is a large walled court,
in its rear Theile the once walled Dattelmagazine are, while in the
other to the front Theile Ausdreschen certain cereal is laid.

In the middle stands a high dome Sidi Slimane, one in Siuah
great veneration in the saints. On the first day of course, passed
almost the whole time with a visit to Receive. Even the most fanatical
Kadhi was good for the Christians to make a visit, but my astonishment
was increased, as well as the Mkaddem of Snussi came to me and
expressed his regret that I am not in Sidi el Madhi Sarabub (the
son and successor Sidi Mohammed Snussi's) visited. When I erwiederte
him, my guide had told me earlier and I have this anywhere in
Barca heard that Sidi el Madhi no Christians in Sarabub wanted to
see, and my life if I went, riskiren would, he swore that this was a
malicious defamation, Sidi el Madhi would on the contrary, Theil
pleased me hospitality prove to be.
No doubt these trees were once submerged in a
strong mineral solution, tinted with every color of the rainbow.
Still, more marvelous to relate, an excavation on the hillside proves
that there are eleven layers of such forests, one above another,
divided by as many cushions of lava. Think of the ages represented
here, during which all these different forests grew, and were
successively turned to stone! This, therefore, is another
illustration of the conflict between Life and Death. Each was in turn
a victor, and rested on his laurels for unnumbered centuries. Life is
triumphant now; but who shall say that Death may not again prove
conqueror? If not immediately, Death may well be patient. He will
rule all this planet in the end.

[Illustration: A NATURAL BRIDGE.]

[Illustration: A PETRIFIED FOREST.]

No one can travel through the Yellowstone Park without imagining how
it looks in winter. The snowfall is enormous, some drifts in the
ravines being hundreds of feet deep, and, owing to the increased
supply of water, the geysers throw higher streams. No traveling is
possible then except on snowshoes; and it is with difficulty that
some of the Park hotels are reached as late as the middle of May. Of
course, in such a frigid atmosphere, the steam arising from the
geysers is almost instantly congealed; and eye-witnesses affirm that,
in a temperature of forty degrees below zero, the clouds of vapor
sent up by Old Faithful rose fully two thousand feet, and were seen
ten miles away.

[Illustration: THE PARK IN WINTER.]

It can be well imagined that to do much exploration here, in winter,
is not alone immensely difficult, but dangerous. In 1887 an
expedition was formed, headed by Lieutenant Frederick Schwatka; but,
though he was experienced as an Arctic traveler, in three days he
advanced only twenty miles, and finally gave out completely. Most of
the exploring party turned back with him; but four kept heroically
on, one of whom was the photographer, Mr. F.J. Haynes, of St. Paul.
Undismayed by Schwatka's failure, he and his comrades bravely
persisted in their undertaking. For thirty days the mercury never
rose higher than ten degrees below zero. Once it marked fifty-two
degrees below! Yet these men were obliged to camp out every night,
and carry on their shoulders provisions, sleeping-bags, and
photographic instruments. But, finally, they triumphed over every
obstacle, having in midwinter made a tour of two hundred miles
through the Park. Nevertheless, they almost lost their lives in the
attempt. At one point, ten thousand feet above the sea, a fearful
blizzard overtook them. The cold and wind seemed unendurable, even
for an hour, but they endured them for three days. A sharp sleet cut
their faces like a rain of needles, and made it perilous to look
ahead. Almost dead from sheer exhaustion, they were unable to lie
down for fear of freezing; chilled to the bone, they could make no
fire; and, although fainting, they had not a mouthful for
seventy-two hours. What a terrific chapter for any man to add to the
mysterious volume we call life!

One might suppose by this time that all the marvels of our National
Park had been described; but, on the contrary, so far is it from
being true, that I have yet to mention the most stupendous of them
all,--the world-renowned cañon of the Yellowstone. The introduction
to this is sublime. It is a waterfall, the height of which is more
than twice as great as that of Niagara. To understand the reason for
the presence of such a cataract, we should remember that the entire
region for miles was once a geyser basin. The river was then near the
surface; and has been cutting down the walls of the cañon ever since.
The volcanic soil, decomposed by heat, could not resist the constant
action of the water. Only a granite bluff at the upper end of the
cañon has held firm; and over that the baffled stream now leaps to
wreak its vengeance on the weaker foe beneath.

[Illustration: THE EXPEDITION OF 1887.]

[Illustration: F.J. HAYNES.]

[Illustration: THE CAÑON FROM A DISTANCE.]

Through a colossal gateway of vast height, yet only seventy feet in
breadth, falls the entire volume of the Yellowstone River. It
seems enraged at being suddenly compressed into that narrow space;
for, with a roar of anger and defiance and without an instant's
hesitation, it leaps into the yawning gulf in one great flood of
dazzling foam. When looked upon from a little distance, a clasp of
emerald apparently surmounts it, from which descends a spotless robe
of ermine, nearly four hundred feet in length. The lower portion is
concealed by clouds of mist, which vainly try to climb the
surrounding cliffs, like ghosts of submerged mountains striving to
escape from their eternal prison. We ask ourselves instinctively:
What gives this river its tremendous impetus, and causes it to fill
the air with diamond-tinted spray, and send up to the cliffs a
ceaseless roar which echoes and reëchoes down the cañon? How
awe-inspiring seems the answer to this question, when we think upon
it seriously! The subtle force which draws this torrent down is the
same power that holds the planets in their courses, retains the
comets in their fearful paths, and guides the movements of the
stellar universe. What is this power? We call it gravitation; but why
does it invariably act thus with mathematical precision? Who knows?
Behind all such phenomena there is a mystery that none can solve.
This cataract has a voice. If we could understand it, perhaps we
should distinguish, after all, but one word,--_God_.

[Illustration: YELLOWSTONE RIVER ABOVE THE FALLS.]

[Illustration: THE GREAT FALLS OF THE YELLOWSTONE.]

[Illustration: UPPER FALLS OF THE YELLOWSTONE.]

Natalia Stepanovna = =. What is it? (Pause.)

Well? = Lomow .= bother me I will give myself to be brief. Dear Natalia
Stepanovna, it's you know that I have long since my childhood,
have the honor to know your family. My aunt and blessed her husband,
from whom I, as you know, inherited the land, always had the greatest
respect for your father and your blessed mother. Lomows The sex
of the sex of Tschubukows has always stood in the fraternal, so to
speak kinship relationships, moreover, borders, as you choose to
know, my site closely to yours. If you want to kindly remind hit
my oxen meadows to your hard birch forest.

Stepanovna Natalia .= = Excuse me, I must interrupt you. - You say
"my + + Ox Meadows" ... yes, because the are also yours?

= Lomow .= Yes, they belong to me ... Natalia Stepanovna .= = So? That
is something! The Oxen Meadows are ours, not yours! Lomow .= = No - +
+ me, dear Natalia Stepanovna! Natalia Stepanovna .= = For me, this
is something completely new! How are they to you? = .= Lomow
What - how? I speak of those steers meadows, between the birch
forest, and being stuck in the brick earth is. Natalia Stepanovna .=
= Well, this ... include us ... Lomow = .= No, you are wrong, dear
Natalia Stepanovna, they belong to me. .= = Natalia Stepanovna
Remember just exactly Wassiljitsch Ivan!

Is it a long time ago that you have purchased the same? = Lomow .= How
long?

As far as I am addressing myself can remember, she always belonged
to us. .= = Natalia Stepanovna Well, this is not so.

You apologize already! Lomow .= = This is clear from the papers
indicate, dear Natalia Stepanovna. The ox meadows I have ever been
- this is true - of the planet, but now it is all known that they
belong to me. There is nothing to litigate. Listen to kindly: The
grandmother of my aunt has these meadows for an indefinite period for
the free use of the farmers of the grandfather of your dear father
on the other hand, provided that the grandmother, the bricks are
burned. The farmers of the grandfather of your dear father used the
meadows about forty years without charge and became used to the
same view as their property, but later, when the Decree came ...

Natalia Stepanovna .= = It's not the way you tell? Also my
grandfather and great grandfather were convinced that their
land is up to the swamps covered - in other words, the steers
were meadows us. What is there to argue? I do not understand ... It
is really annoying. Lomow = .= I will show you the documents, Natalia
Stepanovna.
The wind has carved them like a
sculptor's chisel. The lightning's bolts have splintered them, until,
mile after mile, they rise in a bewildering variety of architectural
forms. Old castles frown above the maddened stream, a thousand times
more grand than any ruins on the Rhine. Their towers are five hundred
feet in height. Turrets and battlements, portcullises and
draw-bridges, rise from the deep ravine, sublime and inaccessible;
yet they are still a thousand feet below us! What would be the effect
could we survey them from the stream itself, within the gloomy
crevice of the cañon? Only their size convinces us that they are
works of Nature, not of Art. Upon their spires we see a score of
eagles' nests. The splendid birds leave these at times, and swoop
down toward the stream; not in one mighty plunge, but gracefully, in
slow, majestic curves, lower and lower, till we can follow them only
through a field-glass, as they alight on trees which look to us like
shrubs.

[Illustration: TEMPLES SCULPTURED BY THE DEITY.]

But many of these forms are grander than any castles. Which city do you
want, ad quem locum vis? Are not you here last week durchpassiert,
es tu non altera Hebdomadae hic perpassatus? "He asked him
in German and husarenlateinisch at the same time, because he did not
know whether he is a German or a Hungarian was.
Fantastic gargoyles stretch out from the parapets. A hundred
flying buttresses connect them with the mountain side. What right
have you ever, to give away other people's property? = Tschubukow
.= probably you will allow me to know whether I have the right to
do or not. Young man, I'm not used to that with me in that tone is
spoken and the like. I, young man, I'm twice as old as you and ask
to speak to me calmly, and the like. Lomow .= = No, you think to fool
me and make fun about me! They call my land yours, and the want that
I need to remain human and to you to speak.

Two visions of this world stand out within my memory which, though
entirely different, I can place side by side in equal rank. They are
the Himalayas of India, and the Grand Cañon of the Yellowstone. I
told him then that my tent, my servant and Kameele would be behind
the dunes, and as to its distant whether Kameele my property
would be so, was, I seemed again to increase his respect. "Now is
welcome, "he said," and drink from our first blessed water. " He
then picked himself from an ancient stone Kumme one with water, put
them in his mouth, and after he drank, he handed them to me. That
was a delicious drink, sweet and cold.
It is as if Almighty God had kept
for His own use one part of His creation, that man might merely gaze
upon it, worship, and retire.

[Illustration]