Produced by Steven desJardins and Distributed Proofreaders


[Illustration: THE GIANTS OF THE FOREST AND THE MEN WHO SAFEGUARD THEM.

_Photography by U. S. Forest Service._]

U. S. SERVICE SERIES.

THE BOY WITH THE U. S. FORESTERS

BY FRANCIS ROLT-WHEELER

With Thirty-eight Illustrations from Photographs taken by the U. S.
Forest Service

BOSTON

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.

1910


To My Son Roger's Friend

WILBUR UFFORD


PREFACE


Much of the wilderness is yet but little trod. Great stretches of virgin
forest still remain within whose dim recesses nothing is changed since
the days the Indians dwelt in them. The mystery and the adventure are
not sped, the grandeur and the companionship still pulse among the
glades, the "call of the wild" is an unceasing cry, and to that call the
boy responds.

But if this impulse to return to the shelter of the wilds be still so
strong, how greatly more intense does it become when we awaken to the
fact that the forest needs our help even more than we need its sense of
freedom. When we perceive that the fate of these great belts of untamed
wilderness lies in the hands of a small group of men whose mastery is
absolute, when first we realize that national benefits--great almost
beyond the believing--are intrusted to these men, surely Desire and
Duty leap to grip hands and pledge themselves to the service of the
forests of our land. To breathe the magnificent spaces of the West, to
reveal the wealth and beauty of our great primeval woods, to acclaim the
worth of the men who administer them, and to show splendid possibilities
to a lad of grit and initiative is the aim and purpose of

THE AUTHOR.


CONTENTS


CHAPTER I
ENTERING THE SERVICE

CHAPTER II
PUTTING A STOP TO GUN-PLAY

CHAPTER III
THE FIGHT IN THE COULEE

CHAPTER IV
PICKING A LIVELY BRONCHO

CHAPTER V
A TUSSLE WITH A WILD-CAT

CHAPTER VI
IN THE HEART OF THE FOREST

CHAPTER VII
WILBUR IN HIS OWN CAMP

CHAPTER VIII
DOWNING A GIANT LUMBERJACK

CHAPTER IX
A HARD FOE TO CONQUER

CHAPTER X
A FOURTH OF JULY PERIL

CHAPTER XI
AMIDST A CATTLE STAMPEDE

CHAPTER XII
ALMOST TRAMPLED TO DEATH

CHAPTER XIII
HOW THE FOREST WON A GREAT DOCTOR

CHAPTER XIV
A ROLLING CLOUD OF SMOKE

CHAPTER XV
THE FOREST ABLAZE

CHAPTER XVI
IN THE MIDST OF A SEA OF FIRE


ILLUSTRATIONS


The Giants of the Forest and the Men Who Safeguard Them
A Forest Fire out of Control
Good Forestry Management
Bad Forestry Management
The Tie-cutters' Boys
Deforested and Washed Away
As Bad as Anything in China
How Young Forests are Destroyed
Where Sheep are Allowed
Cowboys at the Round-up
Patrolling a Coyote Fence
Reducing the Wolf Supply
Where Ben and Mickey Burned the Brush
The Cabin of the Old Ranger
Stamping It Government Property
Wilbur's Own Camp
Just about Ready to Shoot
Train-load from One Tree
Wilbur's Own Bridge
Where the Supervisor Stayed
Measuring a Fair-sized Tree
Running a Telephone Line
Nursery for Young Trees
Plantation of Young Trees
Sowing Pine Seed
Planting Young Trees
What Tree-planting Will Do
The First Conservation Expert
Sand Burying a Pear Orchard
No Water, No Forests. No Forests, No Water
With Water!
"That's One Painter Less, Anyhow!"
"Smoke! And How am I Going to Get There?"
"Keep It from Spreading, Boys!"
"Get Busy Now, When It Breaks into the Open!"


THE BOY WITH THE U. S. FORESTERS


CHAPTER I

ENTERING THE SERVICE


"Hey, Wilbur, where are you headed for?"

The boy addressed, who had just come through the swing-doors of an
office building in Washington, did not slacken his pace on hearing the
question, but called back over his shoulder:

"To the forest, of course. Come along, Fred."

Edward did not know what he should reciprocate. He looked at her, he
besah the copy.

The first leaves were covered with the greatest care, with a delicate
female hand, then seemed to change trains, light and freedom to be,
but how amazed he was when he was the last pages with eyes overflowed!

"For God's sake!" he exclaimed, "what is this? This is my hand!"

He looked at Ottilien and return them to the leaves, especially the final
was quite as if he himself would have written.

Ottilie was silent, but she looked at him with the greatest
satisfaction in the eyes.

Eduard lifted his arms up: "you love me!

" he exclaimed, "Ottilie, you love me" and they held each other included.
Who took the other first, would not have to be distinguished. From
this moment on, the world Eduards diverted, it is no longer what it
was, the world no longer what they had.

They stood for each other, he held their hands, they looked each
other in the eye, in the process once again to embrace.

Charlottenstrasse with the captain stepped inside. One of the excuses of
a longer staying outside Eduard secretly smiled. 'O how much it comes
too early! " he said to himself They sat down for dinner. The people
of today's visit were assessed. Eduard lovingly excited, spoke well of
every one, always gentle, often cheaper.

Charlotte, are not quite in his opinion was noted and this mood
joked with him that he, the other on the outgoing company is always
the toughest tongue court can be made, so today was mild and
indulgent.

With Fire and heartfelt conviction cried Edward: "you have only a fairly
basic nature of love, there come all the other lovable before! "
Ottilie, the eyes down, and Charlotte saw before him. The captain
took the floor and said, "with feelings of respect, of reverence, it is
also something similar. It only recognizes only the treasures of
values in the world, if one such views on a subject the opportunity
to practice there.

"Charlotte looked at early in her bedroom to get to the alarm to
his left, for this evening between her and the captain was made.

As Eduard ashore by jumping from the boat landing was, wife and friend
of the fluctuating element itself turned over, saw the man now Charlotte,
in order to take in the quiet had already suffered so much, in the twilight,
sitting in front of and with the guidance of two rowing the vehicle in
any direction to move. You felt a deep, often perceived sadness. The
circles of Kahn, the lapping of the oars through the water
hinschauernde wild touch, the purr of the pipes, the last of the
birds fluttering, blinking and flashing cons of the first stars:
everything had something ghostly in this general silence.

It seemed to her , the friend led them far away, to suspend, to leave
them alone.

A great movement was in its interior, and she could not cry. The captain
described it, meanwhile, after his intention as the attachments should
be.

He praised the good properties of Kahn that he is rowing with two easily
from one person to move and can govern.

You will even learn that it was a pleasant sensation, sometimes alone
on the water to swim and his own ferry - and helmsman to be.

For these words was the girlfriend of the impending separation on heart.
"Say it with intent?" she thought to herself 'Is he like this already?
In case first, or he says it randomly, so that he unconsciously
vorausverkündigt my fate?

" It took them a great wistfulness, an impatient, they asked him,
as soon as possible to land and after her return to the palace.

It was the first time that the captain befuhr the ponds, and whether
it is in general equal their depth was investigated, as it were but the
different bodies is unknown. Dark it started to become, he directed
his course to where it is a comfortable place supposed to disembark
and the footpath is not removed knew of the palace held.

But from this train, he was somewhat distracted, as a crowd of Lotte
with a kind of desire Angstlichkeit repeated on the country soon.

He approached with renewed efforts to shore, but unfortunately, he
felt at some distance of them stopped and he was stuck, and his
efforts to kick the habit again, were in vain.

What to do? He was nothing left, than in the water to rise, which was
shallow enough, and the girlfriend to the country to bear.

Glücklich he brought the dear burden over, strong enough not to vary
or her to give some worries, but she had frightened her arms around
his neck slung.

He held her firmly and pressed them itself. Only on a grassy slope,
he had them down, not without movement and confusion. It was still at his
throat and he closed it again in his arms and pressed a kiss on her
vivid lips, but at the moment he stood on her feet, pressed his
mouth on her hand and cried: "Charlotte, you will forgive me?" The
kiss, the friend dared him to they almost returned Charlotten brought
back to himself to put his hand, but they lifted him not to.

But turning towards him hinunterneigte and a hand laid on his shoulders,
she exclaimed from: "that this moment in our life time doing, we
can not prevent, but that our worth depends on us.

You have to be distinguished, dear friend, and you will be distinguished.
The Count makes Anstalt, your destiny to improve it hurts me and
is happy.

I wanted to hide it until it certainly would, the moment requires me to
discover this secret.

Only in the sense I can tell you, I can forgive, if we have the courage
to change our situation, because therefore we can not depend on
our attitude to change.

"She lifted him up and grabbed his arm to get it to support, and so
they came silently after the castle. But now she stood in her bedroom,
where she is a wife Eduards had to feel and look.

Your came from these contradictions and their more efficient through
life experienced varied character Hülfe.

Always accustomed to their self-conscious about it himself, and, it was
not hard even now, through serious consideration to the desired
equilibria to approach so they had to smile about himself by the thought
of visiting quaint night.

But they quickly took a strange idea, a joyous tremble bängliches, the
pious wishes and hopes are dissolved. Stirred she knelt down, they
repeated the oath that they Eduards done before the altar. friendship,
passion, renunciation went before her in clear images over. They
felt inwardly restored. Soon they will take a sweet tiredness and a quiet
sleep. Eduard by his side is in a very different mood . To sleep, he
thinks so little that he did not even mind to undress. The copy of the
document and kissed it a thousand times, the beginning of Ottilien shy
childish hand; the end he could hardly dare to kiss, because his own hands
to see who believe .

'O, that there would be another document!

" says he is in a quiet, yet it has already provided the best insurance
that his highest wish was fulfilled. If it is yes but in his hands! And
it will not always continue to press his heart, though disfigured by
the signature of a third party • The declining moon rises over the
forest out. The warm night beckons to the outdoors, it sweeps around,
he is the restless and the happiest of all mortals. It converts
through the gardens, they are close to him, he hurries to the field, and
is it too far. After the castle pulls it back, he can be found at
Ottilien windows.

Here he is on a terrace staircase. "walls and bars', he says to himself,
'separate us now, but our hearts are not separated.

Would it before me, in my arms would fall, I am in theirs, and what is
needed more certainty than this! "Everything was quiet around him,
no breeze stirred;'s so quiet that he delivered the burrowing busy
working animals could hear the earth, where day and night are equal.
He was very happy his dream after, finally slept and woke up again not
more than up to the sun with fabulous views and the earliest heraufstieg
fog gewältigte.

Well, he found ing to the first in his possessions. The workers seemed
to him too long auszubleiben.

They came and it seemed to him its too little and the superior
for his daily work needs to be low.

He asked for more workers, you promised it and placed it in the
course of day.

But these are not enough to him, his intentions to run quickly to see.
The creation makes him no more pleasure, it should have everything
ready, and for whom? gebahnt The paths should be so easy to go Ottilie,
the seats already in place, so there Ottilie could rest. Even in the new
home he is pushing what he can and it should be addressed to Ottilien
birthdays. In Eduards views as in his actions is no longer level. The
consciousness of loving and loved to be pushing him into infinity.
How is it changed the view from all rooms, from all environments, he
finds in his own home no more. Ottilien present devours him, he is totally
immersed in it, no other consideration rising before him, no
conscience speaks to him, everything in nature has been tamed,
breaks loose, his whole being flows against Ottilien.

The captain observed that driving and passionate desire to prevent
tragic consequences.

All of these plants, which now shoots with a single-sided, overly promoted,
he had a quiet friendly coexistence calculated. The sale of the
Vorwerk was established by him, which first payment done, Charlotte
had the agreement after their box office take in.

But they must be equal in the first week of seriousness and patience
and order more than usual practice in mind, because after the hasty
way the suspended not long enough.

There was much beginning and much to do. Charlotten How should he be
in this position, you are advised and agree that we want to prefer
to work scheduled accelerate the end to absorb funds and their
removal instruct the payment dates, the Vorwerk sales were retarded.

There was almost no loss by assignment of Gerechtsame do, you had
freer hand man made, because everything going on, there were enough
workers, more suddenly and surely, and soon came to an end.

Eduard gladly voted for, because it's übereintraf intentions.

In the inner heart of Charlotte, however, persisted in what they need and
are prefixed, and it is the male friend with the same sense to the site.
But this will only increase their confidentiality. You agree mutually
on Eduards passion, they advise about. Charotte closes Ottilien
closer to itself, they strictly observed, and the more they are aware
of her own heart had been, the more they can look deeper into the heart
of the girl. She sees no escape, as they must remove the child. Now
it seems a happy coincidence that Lucian such a great praise in the
pension, because the great-aunt, informed they will now, once and for
all to take them to, they introduce into the world.

Ottilie was in the pension return the captain away wohlversorgt;
and everything stood still a few months, yes so much better. My own
relationship to Charlotte hoping Eduard soon recover, and they put
it all so circumspect in their way that they are only more and more
into the delusion confirmed in an earlier, limited condition could
return, a force can be released back into the narrowness bring. Eduard
felt, however, the barriers are very high, which he presented in
the way.

He even noticed soon that he and Ottilien auseinanderhielt, that he was
difficult for them alone to talk, even to approach her, except in the
presence of several, and by this he was morose, was it on some others.
Could he speak Ottilien volatile, so it was not only his Love to insure,
but also about his wife, on the captain to complain. He does not feel
that he himself by his vigorous driving the fund to be exhausted on the
way was he bitterly censured Charlotten and the captain that, in the
business against the first clause acted, and yet he had in the second
arrangement gewilligt, yes he did it himself and even necessary. The
hatred is partisan, but the love is there even more. Ottilie also
alienated itself to some of Charlotte and the Captain. As Eduard once
against Ottilien over the past complained that he and a friend in
such a situation is not very sincerely handle, returned unbedachtsam
Ottilie: "I had already satisfied that he is not quite honest to you.

I heard him once Charlotten to say 'if we only Eduard with his
Flötendudelei spared!

It can not be and it is for the audience as nuisance.' You can think
about how geschmerzt me, since I really like akkompagniere. "No sooner
had it I said, as you know the Spirit whispers, that she would be
silent, but it was out. Eduards face turned. Never had him a little more
reticence, he was in his favorite attacked claims that he was one child's
desire without the least arrogance aware. What amused him, making him
popular, but be sparing with the delights of treatment. He did not know
how terrible it was for a third party, their ears by a weak talent
violate it.

He was offended, angry, not again to forgive.

He felt himself of all obligations losgesprochen. The need to Ottilien
to be with them to see their little zuzuflüstern, her confidence grew
with each day. He decided to write to her, she is a secret correspondence
to ask. The sliver of paper what he had done enough laconic, lay on the
desk and became the winches heruntergeführt when the valet hereintrat,
his frizzy hair. Usually, the heat of the iron to try and bent down to
this after Papierschnitzeln on earth, this time he took the billet,
pinched in a hurry, and it was scorched. Eduard, the Mißgriff noted tore
it from his hand.

Soon thereafter continued he was out again to write and it was not
quite so for the second time in the spring.

He felt some concern, some concern, however, he has overcome.
It must
take a tree a long while to burn, even after it gets alight, especially
if it's a big one."

"A big forest fire, fanned by a high wind, and in the dry season,"
answered the Chief Forester, "could catch the fastest runner in a few
minutes. The flames repeatedly have been known to overtake horses on the
gallop, and where there are no other means of escape the peril is
extreme."

"But will green trees burn so fast?" the older boy queried in surprise.
"I should have thought they were so full of sap that they wouldn't burn
at all."

"The wood and foliage of coniferous trees like spruce, fir, and pine are
so full of turpentine and resin that they burn like tinder. The heat is
almost beyond the power of words to express. The fire does not seem to
burn in a steady manner, the flames just breathe upon an immense tree
and it becomes a blackened skeleton which will burn for hours.

"The actual temperature in advance of the fire is so terrific that the
woods begin to dry and to release inflammable vapors before the flames
reach them, when they flash up and add their force to the fiery
hurricane. It is almost unbelievable, too, the way a crown-fire will
jump. Huge masses of burning gas will be hurled forth on the wind and
ignite the trees two and three hundred yards distant. Fortunately, fires
of this type are not common, most of the blazes one is likely to
encounter being ground fires, which are principally harmful in that they
destroy the forest floor."

"But I should have thought," said Wilbur, "that such fires could only
get a strong hold in isolated parts where nobody lives."

"Not at all. Sometimes they begin quite close to the settlements, like
the destructive fire at Hinckley, Minnesota, in 1894, which burned
quietly for a week, and could have been put out by a couple of men
without any trouble; but sometimes they start in the far recesses of the
forest and reach their full fury very quickly. Of course, every fire,
even the famous Peshtigo fire, started as a little bit of a blaze which
either of you two boys could have put out."

"How big a fire was that, sir?" asked Fred.

"It covered an area of over two thousand square miles."

"Great Cæsar!" ejaculated Wilbur after a rapid calculation, "that would
be a strip twenty miles wide and a hundred miles long."

The Chief Forester nodded.

"It wiped the town of Peshtigo entirely off the map," he said. "The
people were hemmed in, ringed by fire on every side, and out of a
population of two thousand, scarcely five hundred escaped. Flight was
hopeless and rescue impossible."

"And could this have been stopped after it got a hold at all?" asked
Wilbur seriously, realizing the gravity of the conditions that some day
he might have to face. "Could not something have been done?"

"It could have been prevented," said the Chief Forester fiercely, "and
as I said, in the first few hours either one of you boys could have put
it out. But there have been many others like it since, and probably
there will be many others yet to come. Even now, there are hundreds of
towns and villages near forest lands utterly unprovided with adequate
fire protection. Some of them are near our national forests, and it is
our business to see that no danger comes to them.[1] Think of a fire
like that of Peshtigo, think that if it had been stopped at the very
beginning a thousand and a half lives would have been saved, and then
ask yourself whether the work of a Forest Guard is not just about as
fine a thing as any young fellow can do."

[Footnote 1: While this volume was in the press, forest fires of the
utmost violence broke out in Idaho, Washington, and Montana. Over two
hundred lives were lost, many of them of members of the Forest Service,
and hundreds of thousands of acres of timber were destroyed.]

Wilbur turned impulsively to his chum.

"You'll just have to join us, Fred," he said. "I don't see how any one
that knows anything about it can keep out. You could go to a forestry
school this summer and start right in to get ready for it."

"I'll think about it," said the older boy.

The Chief Forester was greatly pleased with the lad's eagerness to
enroll his friend, and, turning to him, continued:

"I don't want you to think it's all fire-fighting in the forest, though,
Loyle; so I'll give you an idea of some of the other opportunities which
will come your way in forest work. I suppose both of you boys hate a
bully? I know I used to when I was at school."

"I think," said Wilbur impetuously, "that a bully's just about the worst
ever."

"I do, too," joined in Fred.

"Well, you'll have a chance to put down a lot of bullying. You look
surprised, eh? You don't see what bullying has to do with forestry? It
has, a great deal, and I'll show you how. I suppose you know that a
forest is a good deal like a school?"

"Well, no," admitted Wilbur frankly, "I don't quite see how."

"A forest is made up of a lot of different kind of trees, isn't it, just
as a school is made up of a lot of boys? And each of these trees has an
individuality, just in the same way that each boy has an individuality.
That, of course, is easy to see. But what is more important, and much
less known, is that just as the school as a whole gets to have a certain
standard, so does the forest as a whole."

"That seems queer," remarked Fred.

"Perhaps it does, but it's true none the less. In many schools there are
some boys bigger than others, but who are not good for as much, and
they're always picking at the others and crowding them down. In the
same way in a forest there are always some worthless trees, trying to
crowd out the ones which are of more value. As the trees of better value
are always sought for their timber, that gives the worthless stuff a
good chance to get ahead. One of the duties of a Forester, looking after
his section of the forest, is to see that every possible chance is given
to the good over the bad."

"It's really like having people to deal with!" cried Fred in surprise.
"It sounds as if a tree were some kind of a human being."

"There are lots of people," said the Chief Forester, "who think of trees
and speak of trees just exactly as if they were people like themselves.
And it isn't even only the growing of the right kind of trees, but there
are lots of ways of handling them under different conditions and at
different ages. Thus, a Forester must be able to make his trees grow in
height up to a certain stage, then stop their further growth upwards and
make them put on diameter."

"But how can you get a tree to grow in a certain way?" asked Fred in
utter amazement.

"Get Loyle here to tell you all about it. I suppose you learned that at
the Ranger School, didn't you?" he added, turning to the younger boy.

"Yes, sir. We had a very interesting course in silviculture."

"But just to give you a rough idea, Fred," continued the Forester, "you
know that some trees need a lot of light. Consequently, if a number of
young trees are left fairly close together, they will all grow up
straight as fast as they can, without putting out any branches near the
bottom, and all their growth will be of height."

"See, Fred," interjected Wilbur, "that's why saplings haven't got any
twigs except just at the top."

"Just so," said the Forester. "Presently," he continued, "as these young
trees grow up together, one will overtop the rest. If the adjacent small
trees be cut down when this tallest tree has reached a good height, it
will spread at the top in order to get as much sunlight as possible. In
order to carry a large top the diameter of the trunk must increase. So,
by starting the trees close together and allowing one of them to develop
alone after a certain height has been reached, the Forester has
persuaded that tree first to grow straight and high, and then to
develop girth, affording the finest and most valuable kind of lumber.
That's just one small example of the scores of possibilities that lie in
the hands of the expert Forester. By proper handling a forest can be
made to respond to training, as I said, just as a school might do."

"I can tell you a lot more things, Fred, just as wonderful as that,"
commented Wilbur.

The Chief Forester nodded.

"I'd like to hear you myself," he said; "I'd rather listen to something
about trees than eat. But I've got to go now. I'll see you again soon,
Loyle," and with a parting good wish to both boys, he crossed the street
and went on his way.


[Illustration: A FOREST FIRE OUT OF CONTROL.

Conditions which tax man's resources to the uttermost, and where peril
is the price of victory.

_Courtesy of U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: GOOD FORESTRY MANAGEMENT.

All the smaller wood is used for cord-wood, the brush is in piles ready
for burning, and the young trees are left to grow up into a new forest.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: BAD FORESTRY MANAGEMENT.

Forest cut clear and burned over, all the young growth destroyed, and
nothing left except costly replanting.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


CHAPTER II

PUTTING A STOP TO GUN-PLAY


Wilbur was sitting in the writing-room of the hotel where he was staying
while in Washington, just finishing a letter home telling of his
good-fortune and his appointment, when a bell-boy came to tell him that
his uncle, Mr. Masseth, was downstairs waiting to see him. This uncle
had been a great inspiration to Wilbur, for he was prominent in the
Geological Survey, and had done some wonderful work in the Canyon of the
Colorado. Wilbur hurried down at once.

"Congratulations!" the geologist said, as soon as the boy appeared. "So
you came through with flying colors, I hear."

"Every one was just as fine as could be," answered the lad. "But how did
you know about it, uncle?"

"You wrote me that you were going to call on the Chief Forester to-day,
and so I took the trouble to telephone to one of the men in the office
who would be likely to know the result of your interview."

"Isn't it bully?"

"Yes," said the older man with a quiet laugh, "I think it is 'bully,' as
you call it. But I didn't call only to congratulate you; I thought
perhaps you would like to come with me to-night and meet some of the men
in the Forest Service who are really doing things out West. If you do,
there's no time to waste."

"You bet I do," the boy replied hastily. "But what is it all about?"

"It's a lecture on forestry in China, but it happens to come at the same
time as a meeting of the District Foresters, so they're all in town.
Trot along upstairs and get your hat, and we can talk about it on the
way."

The geologist sauntered over to an acquaintance who was standing in the
hotel lobby near by, but he had hardly exchanged half a dozen sentences
with him when Wilbur reappeared, ready to go.

"You see," said Masseth as they left the hotel, "it is a good plan for
you to meet as many of the leaders of your profession as you can, not
only because their friendship may be useful to you, nor yet only because
they are all pleasant fellows, but because forestry is a profession, a
very large and complex one, and it is a revelation sometimes to see what
can be made of it. I know myself, whenever I meet a great geologist I
always feel a little better to think I can say, 'I am a geologist, too.'
So you, I hope, may be able to say some day, 'I am a Forester, too.'"

"I'm one now," said Wilbur elatedly.

"You're not, you're only a cub yet," corrected his uncle sharply; "don't
let your enthusiasm run away with your good sense. You are no more a
Forester yet than a railroad bill-clerk is a transportation expert."

"All right, uncle," said Wilbur, "I'll swallow my medicine and take that
all back. I'm not even the ghost of a Forester--yet."

"You will meet the real article to-night. As I told you, the District
Foresters are East for a conference, and this lecture is given before
the Forestry Association. So you will have a good chance of sizing up
the sort of men you are likely to be with."

"Will the Forest Supervisors be there, too?"

"I should imagine not. There may be one or two in town. But the
Supervisors alone would make quite a gathering if they were all here.
There are over a hundred, are there not? You ought to know."

"Just a hundred and forty-one now--about one to each forest."

"And there are only six District Foresters?"

"Yes. One is in Montana, one in Colorado, one in New Mexico, one in
Utah, one in California, and one in Oregon. And they have under their
charge, so I learned to-day, nearly two hundred million acres of land,
or, in other words, territory larger than the whole state of Texas and
five times as large as England and Wales."

"I had forgotten the figures," said the geologist. "That gives each
District Forester a little piece of land about the size of England to
look after. And they can tell you, most of them, on almost every square
mile of that region, approximately how much marketable standing timber
may be found there, what kinds of trees are most abundant, and in what
proportion, and roughly, how many feet of lumber can be cut to the acre.
It's always been wonderful to me. That sort of thing takes learning,
though, and you've got to dig, Wilbur, if you want to be a District
Forester some day."

"I'm going to get there some day, all right."

"If you try hard enough, you may. By the way, there's one of them going
in now. That's the house, on the other side of the Circle."

The boy looked across the curve and scanned all the men going in the
same direction, quite with a feeling of companionship. One of the men
who overtook and passed them, giving a hearty greeting to Masseth as he
went by, was Roger Doughty, a young fellow who had distinguished himself
in the Geological Survey, having taken a trip from south to north of
Alaska, and Wilbur's companion felt a twinge of regret that his nephew
had not entered his own service.

Wilbur, however, was always a "woods" boy, and even in his early
childish days had been possessed with a desire to camp out. He had read
every book he could lay hands on that dealt with "the great outdoors,"
and would ten thousand times over rather have been Daniel Boone than
George Washington. Seeing his intense pleasure in that life, his father
had always allowed him to go off into the wilds for his holidays, and in
consequence he knew many little tricks of woodcraft and how to make
himself comfortable when the weather was bad. His father, who was a
lawyer, had wanted him to enter that profession, but Wilbur had been so
sure of his own mind, and was so persistent that at his request he had
been permitted to go to the Colorado Ranger School. From this he had
returned even more enthusiastic than before, and Masseth, seeing that by
temperament Wilbur was especially fitted for the Forest Service, had
urged the boy's father to allow him to enter for it, and did not attempt
to conceal his satisfaction with Wilbur's success.

"Why, Masseth, how did you get hold of Loyle?" asked the Chief Forester
as the two came up the walk together.

"Didn't you know he was my nephew?" was the surprised reply.

"No," answered their host as they paused on the threshold, "he never
said anything to me about it."

The geologist looked inquiringly at his young relative.

"I thought," said Wilbur, coloring, "that if I said anything about
knowing you, before I was appointed, it would look as though I had done
it to get a pull. I didn't think it would do me any good, anyhow; and
even if it had, I felt that I'd rather not get anything that way."

"It wouldn't have helped you a bit," said the Chief Forester, "and, as
you see, you did not need it. I'm glad, too, that you did not mention it
at the time." He nodded his appreciation of the boy's position as they
passed into the room beyond.

The place was thoroughly typical of the gathering and the occasion. The
walls were hung with some magnificent trophies, elk and moose heads, one
stuffed fish of huge size was framed beside the door, and there were
numberless photographs of trees and forests, cross-sections of woods,
and comparisons of leaves and seeds. Although in the heart of
Washington, there was a breath and fragrance in the room, which, to the
boy, seemed like old times in the woods. The men, too, that were
gathered there showed themselves to be what they were--men who knew the
great wide world and loved it. Every man seemed hearty in manner and
thoroughly interested in whatever was going on.

Masseth was called away, soon after they entered the room, and Wilbur,
left to himself, sauntered about among the groups of talkers, looking at
the various trophies hung on the walls. As he drew near to one of the
smaller groups, however, he caught the word "gun-play," so he edged up
to the men and listened. One of them, seeing the lad, moved slightly to
one side as an unspoken invitation to be one of them, and Wilbur stepped
up.

The man who was speaking was comparing the present peaceful
administration of the forests with the conditions that used to exist
years ago, before the Service had been established, and when the Western
"bad man" was at the summit of his power.

"It was during the cattle and sheep war that a fellow had to be pretty
quick on the draw," said one.

"The Service had a good enough man for that, all right," suggested
another member of the same group, "there wasn't any of them who could
pull a bead quicker than our grazing Chief yonder." Wilbur turned and
saw crossing the room a quiet-looking, spare man, light-complexioned,
and apparently entirely inoffensive. "I guess they were ready enough to
give him a wide berth when it came to gun-play."

"Talking about the cattle war," said the first speaker, "the worst
trouble I ever had, or rather, the one that I hated to go into most, was
back in those days. I was on the old Plum Creek Timber Land Reserve,
now a portion of the Pike National Forest. A timber trespass sometimes
leads to a very pretty scrap, and a cattle mix-up usually spells 'War'
with a capital 'W,' but this had both."

"You get them that way sometimes," said a middle-aged, red-headed man,
who was standing by.

"Had some down your way, too, I reckon?"

"Plenty of 'em. But go ahead with the yarn."

"Well, this bunch that I'm speaking of had skipped out from Montana;
they were 'wanted' there, and they had come down and started cutting
railroad ties in a secluded canyon forming one of the branches of West
Plum Creek. They were hated good and plenty, these same tie-cutters,
because they had a reputation of being too handy with their guns, and
consequently causing a decrease in the calf crop. The cattlemen used to
drop in on them every once in a while, but the tie-cutters were foxy,
and they were never caught with the goods. Of course, there was a moral
certainty that they weren't buying meat, but nothing could be proved
against them, and the interchanges of compliments, while lively and
picturesque enough, never took the form of lead, although it was
expected every time they met."

"Had this been going on long?"

"Several months, I reckon," answered the former Ranger, "before I heard
of it. This was just before that section of the country was taken over
by the Forest Service. As soon as notice was given that the district in
question was to be placed under government regulations, a deputation to
the tie-cutters loped down on their cow-ponies to convey the cheerful
news. Expressing, of course, the profoundest sympathy for them, the
spokesman of the cattle group volunteered the information that they
could wrap up their axes in tissue paper, tie pink ribbons on their
rifles and go home, because any one caught cutting timber on the
reserve, now that it was a reserve, would go to the Pen for fifteen
years."

"What a bluff!"

"Bluff it certainly was. It didn't work, either. One of the tie-cutters
in reply suggested that the cowmen should go back and devote their time
to buying Navajo saddle-blankets and silver-mounted sombreros, since
ornamenting the landscape was all they had to do in life; another
replied that if a government inspector ever set eyes on their cattle
he'd drive them off the range as a disgrace to the State; and a third
capped the replies with the terse answer that no ten United States
officers and no hundred and ten cattlemen could take them out alive."

"That wouldn't make the cow-camp feel happy a whole lot," remarked the
red-headed man.

"There wasn't any shooting, though, as I said before, though just how it
kept off I never rightly could understand. At all events they fixed it
so that we heard of it in a hurry. Then both sides awaited developments.
The tie-cutters kept their hands off the cattle for a while, and the
cowmen had no special business with railroad ties, so that, aside from
snorting at each other, no special harm was done.

"But, of course, the timber trespass question had to be investigated,
and the Supervisor, who was then located at Colorado Springs, arranged
to make the trip with me to the tie-cutters' camp from a small station
about fifty miles north of the Springs. I met him at the station as
prearranged. We were just about to start when a telegram was handed him
calling him to another part of the forest in a hurry."

"Tough luck," said one of the listeners.

"It surely was--for me," commented the narrator. "The camp to which we
had intended going was twenty-six miles into the mountains, and going up
there alone didn't appeal to me a little bit. However, the Supervisor
told me to start right out, to get an idea of how much timber had been
cut, and in what kind of shape the ground had been left, and in short,
to 'nose around a little,' as he put it himself."

"That was hardly playing the game, sending you up there alone," said one
of the men.

"I thought at the time that it wasn't, but what could he do? The matter
had to be investigated, and he had been sent for and couldn't come with
me. But he was considerate enough, strongly urging me not to get killed,
'as Rangers were scarce.'"

"That was considerate!"

"Yes, wasn't it? But early the next morning I started for the canyon
where the outlaws were said to be in hiding. The riding was fair, so I
made good time on the trail and got to the entrance of the canyon about
the middle of the day. A few hundred feet from the fork of the stream I
came to a little log cabin, occupied by a miner and his family. I took
lunch with them and told them my errand. Both the man and his wife
begged me not to go up to the camp alone, as they had heard the
tie-cutters threaten to kill at sight any stranger found on their land."

"Why didn't you propose that the miner should go up to the camp with
you?"

"I did. But he remarked that up to date he had succeeded in keeping out
of the cattlemen-lumbermen trouble, and that he was going to keep right
along keeping out. He suggested that if there was going to be any
funeral in the immediate vicinity he wasn't hankering to take any more
prominent part than that of a mourner, and that the title-rôle of such a
performance wasn't any matter of envy with him. However, I succeeded in
persuading him to come part of the way with me, and secured his promise
that he would listen for any shooting, and if I should happen to resign
involuntarily from the Service by the argument of a bullet, that he
would volunteer as a witness in the case."

"I don't altogether blame him, you know," said the red-headed man; "you
said he had a wife there, and interfering with other folks' doings isn't
healthy."

"I didn't blame him either," said the first speaker, "but I would have
liked to have him along. A little farther up the canyon I came to a
recently built log cabin, covered with earth. An old man stood at the
door and I greeted him cheerily. We had a moment's chat, and then I
asked him the way to the cabin where the tie-cutters lived. Judge of my
surprise when he told me this was their cabin, and that they lived with
him. By the time I had secured this much information the two younger men
had come out, and one of them, Tom, wanted to know what I was after. I
stated my business, briefly. There was a pause.

"'Ye 'low as ye're agoin' to jedge them ties,' he said slowly. 'Wa'al I
'low we'll sort 'er go along. Thar's a heap o' fow-el in these yar
parts, stranger, an' I 'low I'll take a gun.'

"The other brother, who seemed more taciturn, turned and nodded to two
youngsters who had come out of the cabin while Tom was speaking. The
elder of the two, a boy about thirteen years old, went into the shack
and returned in a moment bringing out two rifles. I turned the broncho's
head up the trail, but Tom interposed.

"'I 'low,' he said, 'that ye'll hev ter leave yer horse-critter right
hyar; thar ain't much of er trail up the mount'n.'

"I wasn't particularly anxious to get separated from my horse, and that
cabin was just about the last place I would have chosen to leave him;
but there was no help for it, and as I would have to dismount anyway to
get into the timber, I slipped out of the saddle and put the hobbles on.
But when we came to start, the two men wanted me to go first. I balked
at that. I told them that I wasn't in the habit of walking up a mountain
trail in front of two men with guns, and that they would have to go
first and show the way. They grumbled, but, seeing that I meant it, they
turned and silently walked up the mountainside ahead of me.

"They stopped at an old prospect shaft that was filled to the brim with
water, and wanted me to come close to the hole and look at it, telling
me some cock-and-bull story about it, and calling my attention to some
supposed outcrop of rich ore that could be seen under the water. But I
refused flatly to go a step nearer than I then was, telling them that I
wished to get to those ties immediately.

"At an old cabin they halted again, and Tom wanted to know which was
'the best shot in the bunch.' I was not in favor of trying guns or
anything of that sort, especially when there seemed no reason for it,
knowing how easy it would be for a shot to go wide, and so I urged them
to lead on to the ties. But Tom insisted upon shooting, and though his
brother did not seem quite to follow the other's plans, still he chimed
in with him, and the only thing I could do was to agree with what grace
I could. But I decided to make this a pretext for disposing of some of
their superfluous ammunition.

"Pulling my six-shooter, I told Jim to put an old sardine can, that was
lying on the ground near by, on the stump of a tree about twenty-five or
thirty yards distant. Then I told him to lean his rifle against the
cabin while placing the can on the tree. This he did. I stepped over to
the cabin and took the gun as though to look after it. Then I walked
over to where Tom stood, telling him to blaze away at the can on the
tree. While he was doing so I slipped the cartridges out of Jim's gun
and put them in my pocket.

"By the time that Tom had fired three shots Jim came up and I told the
former to hand over the rifle and let his brother try. Quite readily he
did so. Of course, there were only two cartridges left in the gun, for
it was a half-magazine, but Jim expected to take the third shot with his
own rifle. When he had fired twice, however, and reached out his hand
for the other gun, I handed it to him with the remark that it was empty.
For a minute or two things looked black, because both men saw that they
had been tricked. But I had the drop on them, and since they were both
disarmed I felt considerably easier."

"How did it end up?" asked the red-haired listener.

"It was easy enough after that, as long as I didn't turn my back to them
or let either get too near. We went together and counted the ties,
returning to the cabin where I had left my horse. When the tie-cutters
found, however, that the cattlemen had deliberately exaggerated the
penalty for timber trespass in the hope that they would resist and thus
get themselves into serious trouble with the government, their anger was
diverted from me. By joining in with them in a sweeping denunciation of
the cow-camp, and by pointing out that no harsh measures were intended
against them, they came to look on me as friend instead of foe."

"What was done about the trespass?"

"It was pretty early in the days of the Service, and, as you remember,
we let them down easily at first so that no undue amount of friction
should be caused. I think some small fine, purely nominal, was exacted,
and the tie-cutters got into harmonious relations with the Supervisor
later. But those same boys told me, just as I was starting for home,
that they intended to drop me in that old prospect shaft, or, failing
that, to pump me full of holes."

The speaker had hardly finished when a scattering of groups and an
unfolding of chairs took place and the lecturer for the evening was
announced. He won Wilbur's heart at once by an appreciative story of a
young Chinese boy, a civil service student in his native province, who
had accompanied him on a portion of his trip through China in order to
learn what might be done toward the improvement of his country.

"He was a bright lad, this Fo-Ho," said the lecturer, "and it was very
largely owing to him that I extended my trip a little and went to
Fou-Ping. I visited Fo-Ho's family home, where the graves of his
ancestors were--you know how powerful ancestor-worship still is in
China. Such a scene of desolation I never saw, and, I tell you, I was
sorry for the boy. There was the town that had been his father's home
deserted and in ruins.

"Two hundred years before, in this same place now so thickly strewn with
ruins, there had been no one living, and the mountains were accounted
impassable because of the dense forests. But in 1708 a Mongol horde
under a powerful chieftain settled in the valley, and the timber began
to be cut recklessly. Attracted by the fame of this chieftain, other
tribes poured down into these valleys, until by 1720 several hundred
thousand persons were living where thirty years before not a soul was to
be seen. The cold winters of Mongolia drew heavily upon the fuel
resources of the adjacent forests, and a disastrous fire stripped
hundreds of square miles. Farther and farther afield the inhabitants had
to go for fuel, until every stick which would burn had been swept clear;
bleaker and more barren grew the vicinity, until at last the tribes had
to decamp, and what was once a dense forest and next a smiling valley
has become a hideous desert which even the vultures have forsaken."

Masseth leaned over toward Wilbur and whispered:

"You don't have to go as far away as China. There are some terrible
cases of deforestation right here in the United States."

The lecturer then launched into a description of the once great forests
of China, and quoted the words of writers less than three centuries ago
who depicted the great Buddhist monasteries hid deep in the heart of
densely wooded regions. Then, with this realization of heavily forested
areas in mind, there was flashed upon the screen picture after picture
of desolation. Cities, once prosperous, were shown abandoned because the
mountains near by had become deforested. Man could not live there
because food could not grow without soil, and all the soil had been
washed away from the slopes. The streams, once navigable, were choked up
with the silt that had washed down. When rains came they acted as
torrents, since there was no vegetation to hold the water and the lower
levels became flooded.

"Nature made the world a garden," said the speaker, "and man is making
it a desert. Our children and our children's children for countless
generations are to enjoy the gardens we leave, or bewail the deserts
we create."

"Certainly," said Eduard, "helping the round - and cons of thinking, the
way - speeches and cons to anything, but in this speech, I myself only
have been aware, I have decided only felt what I should decide what
I am determined. I see my present, my future life ahead of me, just
between pleasure and misery, I have to choose. Do you, the best man, a
divorce, which is so necessary, which is already done, you can
create Charlotten me permission, I will not go into detail why I believe
that to attain it will be. Go out, dear man, calm down all of us,
make us happy! " Meanwhile faltered. Eduard went on: "My fate and
Ottilien can not be separated, and we will not perish. See this glass!
Our name trains are dareingeschnitten. A joyful cheering threw it into
the air, no one should drink more with it on the rocky soil, it should
crash, but it was caught.

To high price, I have it again eingehandelt, and now I drink it every
day, every day for me to convince them that all conditions are
unzerstörlich, which decided the fate "."

Woe me, "cried the meantime," what must I not with my friends to have
patience! Now I have even encountered the superstition to me as the most
harmful, what can stop the people, hated remains. We play with predictions
and dreams and make thus the daily life significantly. But if life is
important even now, when everything around us is moving and rustled,
then the storm by those ghosts just terrible. "" Let this uncertainty
of life, "cried Edward," between hope and fear that the need of the
heart but only a kind of lodestar, according to what it terms, even
though it can not control afterwards. "" I would probably like me,
"returned the meantime," if only to hope some consistency would be
but I've always found: the warning symptoms respects no man, to the
promising and flattering attention alone is addressed and faith for
her life all alone.

"Since even now mediating in the dark regions saw where he was
always felt uneasy, the longer he stayed in, so he took the urgent
desire Eduards, which inspired him to go Charlotten meant something
willing to.

For what he wanted at all in this Eduards moments still oppose? to
win time, to explore how it the women standing around, that was what he
himself referred to his own attitudes remains to be done. He went to
Charlotte, which he as usual was taken and cheerful.

She taught him to like everything that had happened since has speeches
from Eduards he only diminish the effect. He came from his side approached
cautiously, but it was not about to win, the word divorce only
in Vorbeigehn out. What surprised and amazed by his attitude, he was
so exhilarated than him in Charlotte Following many unpleasant finally
said: "I must believe, I have hope that everything is back to that
Eduard will close again. How can it well be otherwise, because you
find me good hope". "Versteh I understand you right ? fell
mediator admits. "Absolutely," returned Charlotte. "thousand blessed
me this message!"

cried he, striking his hands together. "I know the strength of this
argument on a male mind.

How many marriages I saw it accelerates, fastened restored! More
than a thousand words is such a good hope, indeed the best hope is that
we may have. But, "he continued," what I am concerned, I would
have every reason to be morose.

In this case, I think my own love is not flattered. In my work you
can earn no thanks. I'm I like that doctor, my friend, all the cures
that will unlock it for God's sake to poor tat, but seldom was able to
cure the rich, who wanted to pay for it well. Fortunately, this helps
the cause, of course, because my efforts, my persuasion would have
remained fruitless.

"Charlotte is now demanded of him that he should bring the message Eduards,
a letter from her to take away and see what to do what was built.

He did not enter." Everything is already done, "cried he said. "Write!
Each messenger is as good as I do. Do I move my steps but where I'm
needed. I'm just back to good fortune to be desired, I come to the
baptism." Charlotte was this time, as already often, on mediators
dissatisfied. His rapid beings brought some good shows, but his übereilung
was to blame for some failure. No one was immediately dependent on
preconceived ideas than he does.

Charlotten messenger came to Edward, who received half horror.

The letter could just as well for no than yes decisions. He dared not
mean to break it, and how he affected when he read the paper,
petrified at the following site, which it ends: "Remember that night
hours in which you adventurous than your wife, lover, visiting test,
it irresistible to you zogst define it as a mistress than a bride
in the arms closed.

Let us in this strange happens to have a coincidence of heaven
worship, for a new tape of our relationships at every level at the
moment because the happiness of our lives fall apart and threatens
to disappear.

"As of the moment in the soul Eduards significant, would be difficult
to describe.

In such a crowd will last old habits, old affections again in order to
kill the time and the habitat to be filled.

Hunting and war are such a gentleman for the always-ready Aushülfe.

Eduard longed for external threat, internal to the balance.

He longed for the fall, because his life is unbearable to be threatened,
yes it is it was a consolation to think that it would no longer
be just and thus his lover, his friends could make happy.

Nobody put his will against an obstacle, because he concealed his
decision.

With all the formalities, he wills to be, it was him a sweet
sensation, Ottilien bequeath the estate to be.

In Charlotte, for the Ungeborne, for the captain, for his servants
was provided.

The war erupted again be favored projects. half-military had him in his
youth to create a lot done, he had reason to leave the service. Now it
was a wonderful feeling, with a commander to consider, from which he
could say: under his leadership is probably the death and the victory
certain. Ottilie, Charlotte after their secret became known, involved
like Eduard, and more, went back. She had nothing more to say. hope
she could not, and wish they had not. However, a look into their affairs
gives us her diary, from which we shall do something. In the common life
We met often, what we in the Epic as a trick of the poet to cultivate
pride, namely that if the main characters to remove, hide, the inaction
devote equal then already a Second, Third, little noticed and fills
the space by He expresses his entire work, if we have the attention,
participation, and indeed praise worthy and price will appear.

Thus was the same after the removal of the captain and the architect
Eduards important day, of which the arrangement and execution of
many a company solely depended, where he is exactly circumspect and was
active while the women on some kind of assistance and to breast-feed,
long hours to entertain knew. Even his exterior was of the type
that einflößte confidence and passion aroused. A young man in the full
sense of the word, wohlgebaut, slender, rather a little too large,
modest without anxious, without trusting to be intrusive. Joyfully, he
took every care and effort, and because he calculated with great
ease, so he was soon the whole house being no secret, and everywhere
spread its favorable influence.

The stranger did you usually receive him, and he knew an unexpected
visit to either reject or at least the women in such a way as to
prepare them that it arose from no discomfort.

Among others gave him one day, a young legal scholar much to create
which, from a neighboring nobleman sent, one thing led to language
that, although none of strange importance Charlotten still deeply
touched.

We must remember this incident because it is different things gave an
impetus that might otherwise have had long rested.

We remember us that change, what with the Charlotte churchyard had made.
The monuments all had their place and had moved on the wall at the
base of the church place.

The remaining area was paved. Except for a broad way to the
church and the same pass beyond the gate, was all the rest with different
types of clover besäet, based on the most beautiful green and
flourished.

After a certain order should be approached from the end of the new tombs
ordered, but the place at any time and also compared besäet be.

Nobody could deny that this institution during Sundays - and active church
finds a serene and dignified view granted.

Even the elderly and old habits haftende clergy, initially with the
establishment was not very satisfied, had been his pleasure when
he the old limes, just Philomon with his Baucis dormant before the
back door instead of a nice bumpy tombs colorful rug in front of
you saw, yet also his financial benefit, by Charlotte to use this
stain can assure the parish. desungeachtet Solo had some parishioners
gemißbilligt earlier that the name of the place where their ancestors
rested, lifted and the memory is almost wiped out because the
well-keeping monuments to show who was buried, but not where he was
buried, and on Where did it actually, as many claimed.

From ethos was equally a neighboring family, and a space to yours on this
general resting place several years ago ausbedungen and make the
church a small foundation zugewendet had.

Now was the young legal scholars transmitted to the Foundation to withdraw
and indicate that we do not pay, because the condition under which this
previously done unilaterally repealed and all performances and cons
speeches were not respected.

Charlotte, the originator of this change, the young man wanted to talk
about himself, although lively, but not too vorlaut his principals
and his stated reasons and the company gave some food for thought .

'You see, "he said after a brief entry, in which he intrusiveness
to justify knew" They see that the slightest as the Supreme keen
is the place to call the store with him.

The poorest country man, to bury a child, it is a kind of consolation,
a weak wooden cross on the grave to make it to decorate a wreath to
the memory at least as long to obtain, as the pain lasts, even if
such a feature, such as the grief itself, the time is lifted.

Wealthy transform these crosses in iron, fasten and protect them in
many ways, and here is already time for several years. But also because
finally this fall and inconspicuous, so wealthy have nothing
Angelegeneres, as a stone to assemble, for the last several
generations, and promises of the offspring again and be refreshed.

But this stone is not to attract us, but included among them, the next
Earth confidante.

It is not, both the memory the speech than the person himself,
not by the memory, but from the present.

A secluded beloved embrace and am much more intimately than in
burial mounds in the monument, because this is really little, but
for her to be the same as for marks husbands, relatives, friends,
even after their Hinscheiden still gather, and the living should
retain the right Mißwollende residents and also from the side of
his beloved dormant reject and remove it.

I think therefore that my principal was absolutely right, the
Foundation back, and this is still cheap enough, because the members
of the family are injured in any manner, for which no substitute
for thought.

They are the painfully sweet feeling deprived her lover a funeral
sacrifices, the comforting hope dereinst directly beside them to
rest. "" The roof is not of importance, "returned Charlotte," that
it is therefore a legal trade should be alarmed.

My Reut Institute me so little that I liked the church because of what
you miss, indemnify wants. Only I must honestly confess to you: Your
arguments have not convinced me.

The feeling of a finite general equality, at least after death,
seems more reassuring than this stubborn, rigid Continue our
personalities, trailers and living conditions .-- And what to say
do this?

" directed her question to the architect.

"I wish," returned this, "in such a case neither argue nor make the
difference.

Let me what my art, my way of thinking is closest to that bescheidentlich
comment.

Since we no longer so lucky are the remains of a beloved object
eingeurnt to our chest press, because we are neither rich nor Fair enough,
they are intact in large sarcophagi wohlausgezierten maintained,
even as we are not even in the churches more space for us and for
the ours, but also to the outside are punished, so we have all
cause, the manner in which you, madam, have to approve.

If the members of a commune in series adjacent to each other, so
let them sleep in and under yours, and if the earth once we begin,
I find nothing so natural and clean, than that the coincidental
incurred after zusammensinkenden Hill ungesäumt compare and so the
ceiling, all they wear, every one will be made easier. "" And without
any sign of the memory, without anything, the memory of the horses
should all be temporary?

"spiked Ottilie." Not! "was the architect continued, "not from
memory, only the place should one renounce.

The architects, the sculptors are höchlich interested in that man of them,
from their art, from her hand a period of his life waiting, and
so wish I thought well, well-executed monuments, not individually
and randomly ausgesäet, but to set up a place where they can promise
permanent.

Because even the most pious and High on the privilege waiver do in the
churches in person to rest, so imagine there or at least in the beautiful
Halls to the burial places Denkzeichen, memorandum on. There
are a thousand forms which they prescribe a thousand ornaments, which
they can decorate. "" If the artists are so rich, "returned Charlotte,"
so tell me: how can never in the form of a petty obelisks, a
truncated and an ash column pitcher to find out? Instead of a thousand
inventions, which you boast, I always have seen thousands repetitions.
"" That's probably it for us, "said their architect , "but not
everywhere.

And anyway, it might be with the invention and the application is
becoming its own thing.

Especially it has in this case, some difficulty of a serious subject and
to cheer up with a not unpleasant unpleasant to get into. What draft
monuments all kinds of concerns, which I have collected a lot and show
them occasionally, but always remains the most beautiful monument
of man's own image. This is more than anything else an idea of what
he was, it is the best text to many or a few notes, only it should be
but also in its best time to be made, which is usually neglected.

Nobody thinks that, living forms, and when it happens, it happens to
be inadequate manner. As a quick death still off and such mask on a
block, and that means you have a bust. How rare is the artist
able to fully resuscitate! "" You have, perhaps without knowing, caring
and wanting to, "returned Charlotte," this whole conversation in
my favor steered . The image of a man is surely independent, wherever
it stands, it stands for itself, and we will not demand from him that
it describes the actual gravesite. But I will be a wonderful sensation
confess?

against self-portraits have I kind of dislike, because they always
seem to me a silent reproach to make it point to something remote,
secluded and remind myself how hard it was, the present law to
honor.

Will you, how many people you have seen, known, and confesses to how
little we do, how little we had, how we felt as we meet the spirit
realms, without us to entertain him, the scholar, without to learn from
it, which traveled with us to teach the Vollen love, without giving
him something nice to erzeigen. And, unfortunately, this happens not just
with the passer. societies and families are so against their favorite
links, cities against their worthiest citizens, peoples against
their excellent princes, nations against their finest people.

I stopped to ask why one of the dead so good unbewunden say of the living
always with a certain caution. It was answered, because of those we
have nothing to fear and that we still have somewhere in the path could
be.

So the concern is unclean for the memory of others, it is usually only
a selbstischer joke if it was a sacred Ernst would be against his
relationships überbliebenen always alive and active to receive. "Excited
by the incident and to related conversations, we came to the other
day after the burial place of ornament and the architect of some
amusement happy tat proposal.

Solo on the Church should extend its care to a building that was initially
equal to his attention had to be withdrawn. This church stood for
several centuries after German Art and art in good sizes and
built on a happy decorated. You could probably follow that the builder
of a neighboring monastery with insight and passion are also smaller
buildings in this well, and it still looked serious and pleasant to
the viewer, although the new internal organization to the Protestant
worship chen him something from his silence and majesty had taken. The
architect, it was not hard to imagine Charlotten of a moderate sum to
ask what he is both the exterior as the interior of the ancient meaning
and connection with the preceding fields resurrection to bring about
compliance imagined.

He had a lot of hand skill itself, and some Workers who are still employed
at the house, like you wanted to be maintained until this pious work would
be completed. It was now the case, the building itself with all
environments and Angebäuden to investigate and there was the biggest
surprise and pleasure of the architect noticed a little small side
chapel, and easier still geistreichern dimensions, yet pleasant and
hardworking ornamental.

It contained also some carved and painted the rest of that earlier service,
with some structures and equipment to the various festivals and describe
each in his own way to celebrate knew. The architect could not
refrain from the chapel at once in his plan, and especially with
hereinzuziehen this narrow space as a monument to times past and restore
their taste.

He had the blank space after his inclination already decorated thought and
rejoiced in his painterly talents to practice alone he made his home
for the first fellow a secret of it.

Above all others, he showed the women versprochenermaßen the various designs
and reproductions of old grave monuments, and other vessels then approaching
things, and when you talk to simple burial mounds, the Nordic nations to
speak came, he brought his collection of some weapons and equipment
which it has been found to view.

It was all very neat and portable in drawers and shelves to incised with
cloth-covered boards, so that these old , serious things by his treatment
somewhat Putzhaftes accepted with pleasure and you like it on the box of
a fashion retailer hinblickte. And because he was once a show, as an
entertainment called loneliness, so he used every evening with a portion
of its resources which will.
As
the cattlemen got there first, and went 'way back to the end o' the
ravine, the sheepmen are nearer to what you might call the valley door.
If the cowpunchers could have made a get-away, it's a cinch that they'd
have headed for the ranch an' brought back enough men with them to make
their persuasion plenty urgent. But the herders ain't takin' any chances
of allowin' the other side to better their hand, an' when, one night, a
cowpuncher tries to rush it, they pots him as pretty as you please. The
cook, who's cuddlin' his Winchester at the time, fires at the flash and
disposes o' the herder, sort o' evenin' matters up. This leaves only one
cowpuncher and the cook. There's still three men at the herders' camp.

"Then the cook, he indooces a bullet to become sufficient intimate with
one o' the herder's anatomy, but gits a hole in the leg himself an' is
laid up. The other cowpuncher runs the gauntlet an' gits out safe. He
hikes back the next day with a bunch o' boys, an' they follows up the
herders an' wipes out that camp for fair, an' stampedes the herd over
the nearest canyon. Then they circles back to the coulee to pick up the
cook.

"When they gits there, they surely finds themselves up against evidences
of a tragedy. The cook, he's lyin' on the floor of the shack, dead as a
nail, an' near him is the kid, who's still holdin' a table-knife in his
hand, but who's lyin' unconscious from a wound in the head. The way they
dopes it out, there's been a free-for-all fight in the place between the
two remainin' herders an' the wounded cook, an' it looks some as if the
kid had tried to help his dad by jabbin' at the legs o' the herders with
a knife and been booted in the side o' the head to keep him quiet."

"How old was the youngster, then, Bob-Cat?" asked Wilbur.

"Seven or eight, I guess, maybe not so much," replied the other, "a
nice, bright little kid, so I've heard. But there was somethin' broke, I
reckon, by the blow he had, an' he never got over it. The boys took him
back to the ranch an' doctored him the best they knew how, but they was
buckin' fate an' had to quit, lettin' the kid git better or worse as it
might turn out."

The Count said nothing, because the women who lived, at any time
to subdue, keep in exceptional cases is still a kind of seeming
version.

But they have not heard more of what the count said, he continued: "if
I just am convinced, is what I quickly her. I already have my letter
in his head together, and I urged him to write. They give me a horseback
messenger, which I still can send away tonight. "
"Then Rifle-Eye, he takes this unfortunate kid to the man that owned
the sheep. He's a big owner, this man, and runs thirty or forty herds.
The old hunter--this was all before he was a Ranger, you know--he puts
it right up to the sheep-owner, who's a half-Indian, by the way, an'
tells him that he's got to look after the boy. "We want to admire them,
but us together look." The Birthday herbeigekommen and everything was
finished, the entire wall, the village against the water to einfaßte
and elevated, as is the way to the church, where he for a time in
Charlotten ranging from the paths fortlief, then wrapped the rocks
hinaufwärts the Mooshütte left over, then after a full turn left,
under the left and gradually to the level reached.

It was this day a lot of society appear.

You went to church where the community gathered in festive decorations
antraf. After church services attracted the boys, youths and men,
as it was ordered, provided, and then came the domination of her visit
and his retinue; girls, virgins and women made the decision. In turn of
the road was a high rocky place, which will then let the captain and
guests Charlotten rest. Here they overlooked all the way, the
hinaufgeschrittene Männrschar the nachwandelnden women, which is now
vorbeizogen. It was the beautiful weather at a beautiful sight.

Charlottenstrasse felt be surprised, touched and pressed the captain's
hand warmly.

It was followed by the gently progressive quantity which now form a
circle around the future building space had formed. The client, with
him and the elegant guests were invited down into the depths, where the
foundation, supported on one side, just for settling was ready.
Lucky," added Bob-Cat with a grin,
"it was a flat roof."

"Fifty years is a long time," commented the boy.

"Old Rifle-Eye ain't any spring chicken. He shouldered a musket in the
Civil War, an' durin' the Indian mix-ups was generally found floatin'
around wherever the fun was thickest. He was mighty close friends with
the Pacific scout, old 'Death-on-th'-Trail,' who handed in his time at
Portland not long ago."

"Handed in his time?" questioned Wilbur, then, as the meaning of the
phrase flashed upon him, "oh, yes, I see, you mean he died."

"Sure, pard, died. You ought ter git Rifle-Eye Bill to spin you some
yarns about 'Death-on-th'-Trail.' He'll deny that he's any shakes
himself, but he'll talk about his old campmate forever."

The cowboy pointed with his hand to a long, low group of buildings that
had just come within sight.

"See, Wilbur," he said, "there's the Double Bar J."


[Illustration: HOW YOUNG FORESTS ARE DESTROYED.

Showing the way in which sheep and goats, having cropped the grass
close, will attack undergrowth.

_Photographs by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: WHERE SHEEP ARE ALLOWED.

Example of meadow stretches in midst of heavily forested mountain
slopes.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


CHAPTER IV

PICKING A LIVELY BRONCHO


On seeing the ranch, Bob-Cat and Wilbur had put their ponies to a burst
of speed and in a few minutes they reached the corral. The buildings,
while comfortable enough, were far from pretentious, and even their
strangeness scarcely made up to the boy for the lack of the picturesque.
Then, of course, the fact that the cattle at that time of year were
scattered all over the range and consequently that none of them were in
sight, rendered it still less like his ideal of a cattle ranch, where he
had half expected to see thousands of long-horned cattle tossing their
heads the while that cowboys galloped around them shouting and firing
off pistols.

In contrast with this, the dwelling, the bunk-house, the cooking shack,
and the other frame sheds, all of the neutral gray that unpainted wood
becomes when exposed to the weather, seemed very unexciting indeed. But
when the lad turned to the corral, he felt that there was compensation
there. Several hundred horses were in the enclosure, of many colors and
breeds, but the greater part of them Indian ponies, or containing a
strain of the mustang, and smaller and shaggier than the horses he had
been accustomed to ride in his Illinois home.

The boy turned to his companion, his eyes shining with excitement.

"Do you suppose that I can buy any of those horses that I want to?" he
said.

"If you're totin' along a pile of dinero, you might," was the reply,
"but there's a few cayuses in there that would surely redooce a big roll
o' bills to pretty skinny pickin's. For example, this little bay I'm
ridin' now ain't any special wonder, an' maybe he's only worth about
fifty dollars, but you can't buy him for five hundred. I reckon, though,
you c'n trot away with most of 'em in there for ninety or a hundred
dollars apiece."

"I hadn't expected to pay more than seventy or seventy-five," said
Wilbur, his native shrewdness coming to the front, "and I think I ought
to be able to pick up a good horse or two for that, don't you think?"

"There's allers somethin' that ain't worth much to be got cheap," said
the cowboy, "but I don't look friendly none on payin' a cheap price for
a horse. Speakin' generally, there's somethin' that every feller likes a
whole lot, an' out here, where domestic life ain't our chief play, it's
mostly a horse. Leastways, when I hit the long trail, I'll be just as
sorry to leave some ponies behind as I will humans."

"A horse can be a great chum," assented Wilbur. "So can a dog."

"No dogs in mine," said Bob-Cat emphatically, "they reminds me too much
o' sheep. But when it comes to a horse, I tell ye, there's a lot more in
the deal than buyin' an animal to carry you; there's buyin' somethin'
that all the money in the world can't bring you sometimes--an' that's a
friend."

Wilbur waited a moment without reply, and then the cowboy, deliberately
changing the topic to cloak any strain of sentiment which he thought he
might have been betrayed into showing, continued:

"How about saddles?"

"I'd been thinking about that," replied the boy, "and I thought I'd wait
until I got out here before deciding. You can't use an English
saddle-tree, of course, and I hate it anyway, and one like yours is too
big. Those lumbering Mexican saddles always look to me as if they were
as big a load for a little pony to carry as a man."

"Sure, they're heavy. But you can't do any ropin' without them. If you
try 'n' rope on a small saddle the girth'll pretty near cut a pony in
two. But you ain't got any ropin' to do, so I sh'd think an army
saddle-tree would be about right. There's Rifle-Eye Bill comin' out of
the bunk-house now. Ask him. He'll know."

Wilbur looked up, and saw emerging from the door of the bunk-house a
tall, gaunt mountaineer. He strolled over to the corral with a long,
loose-jointed stride.

"Got him, all right, Bob-Cat, did you?" he said in a measured drawl,
then, turning to the boy, added: "Glad to see you, son."

"I've been hearing all about you, sir," answered Wilbur, "and I'm
awfully glad to meet you here." He was about to dismount, but noting
that Bob-Cat had merely thrown a leg over the horn of his saddle, he
stayed where he was.

The old Ranger looked him over critically and closely, so that Wilbur
felt himself flushing under the direct gaze, though he met the clear
gray eye of his new acquaintance without flinching. Presently the
latter turned to the range-rider.

"What do you think of him?" he asked in a slow, curiously commanding
way.

Bob-Cat squirmed uneasily.

"You is sure annoyin'," he said in an aggrieved manner, "askin' me to go
on record so plumb sudden. I'm no mind-reader."

There was a pause, but the Ranger quietly waited.

"It's embarrassin'," said Bob-Cat, "to try an' trot out a verdic' on
snap-jedgment. I don't know."

Rifle-Eye, quite unperturbed, looked at him steadily and inquiringly.

"You know what you think," he said.

"He's sure green," replied the cowboy, shrugging his shoulders in
protest, "an' he ain't much more humble-minded than a hen that's jest
laid an egg of unusooal size, but I reckon he's got the makin's."

"It's a good thing to be green," said the old Ranger thoughtfully,
"nothin' grows much after it's dry, Bob-Cat. The heart's got to be green
anyway. Ye git hard to bend an' easy to break when ye're gettin' old."

"Then it's a cinch you'll never get old," promptly responded the other.

But the mountaineer continued talking, half to himself:

"An' he's too sure of himself! Wa'al, he's young yet. I've seen a pile
o' sickness in my day, Bob-Cat, but that's about the easiest one to cure
there is."

"What is?"

"Bein' young. Well, son, ye'd better turn the pony in."

The boy dismounted, and, half in pique at the dubious character given
him by Bob-Cat and half in thanks for the meeting at the station and the
ride, he turned to the cowboy, and said:

"I'm glad I've 'got the makings' anyway, and I'm much obliged, Bob-Cat,
for all the yarns you told me on the trail. But, next time I come to the
ranch I'll try not to be as green, and I know I'll not be as young."

The cowboy laughed.

"It's no use tryin' to dodge Rifle-Eye," he said. "You stand about as
good a chance as if you was tryin' to sidestep a blizzard or parryin'
the charge from a Gatlin' gun. If he asks a question you can gamble
every chip in your pile that you're elected, and you've got to ante up
with the answer whether it suits your hand or no."

Wilbur, following the suggestion of the Ranger, unsaddled his pony,
turned him into the corral, and hung his saddle on the fence. Then
together they went up to the house, where Wilbur met the boss, and after
a few moments' chat they returned to the corral.

As the lad had come to the ranch especially for the purpose of buying a
couple of ponies, he was anxious to transact the business as quickly as
possible, and together with Bob-Cat and Rifle-Eye he scanned the horses
in the enclosure, endeavoring to display, as he did so, what little
knowledge of horseflesh he possessed. After the boy had commented on
several, Rifle-Eye pointed out first one and then a second which he had
previously decided on as being the best animals for the boy. But
Wilbur's eye was attracted to a fine sorrel, and, turning to Rifle-Eye,
he said decidedly:

"I want that one!"

The old Ranger, remarking quietly that it was a fine horse, but not
suitable to the purpose for which Wilbur wanted the animal, passed on to
the discussion of several other ponies near by, teaching the boy to
discern the fine points of a horse, not for beauty, but for service.

But as soon as he had finished speaking, after a purely perfunctory
assent, Wilbur burst out again:

"But, Rifle-Eye, I really want that sorrel most."

"You really think you want him?"

"Yes!"

"You wouldn't if you knew a little more about horses, son," said the
Ranger. "It's all right to be sure what you want, but what you want is
to be sure that what you want is right."

"Oh, I'm sure I'm right," answered the boy confidently.

"You can't be too careful choosin' a horse," commented Rifle-Eye.
"Choosin' a horse is a good deal like pickin' out a sugar pine for
shakes. You know what shakes are?"

"No, Rifle-Eye," answered the boy.

"They're long, smooth, split sheets of wood that the old-timers used for
shingles. There's lots of sugar pine that'll make the finest kind o'
lumber, an' all of it's good for fuel, but there ain't one tree in a
hundred that'll split naturally an' easily into shakes. An' there ain't
more'n one man in a hundred as can tell when a tree will do. But when
you do get one just right, it's worth any ten other trees. An' the pine
that's good ain't because it's a pretty tree to look at, or an easy one
to cut down, or because of any other reason than that the grain's right.
Same way with a horse. It ain't for his looks, nor for his speed, nor
because he's easy to ride, nor for his strength you want him, but
because his grain's right."

"Well, I'm sure that sorrel looks just right."

"Do looks always tell?"

"Oh, I can always tell a horse by his looks," replied Wilbur boastfully.
"Anyhow, I want him."

"Persistent?" chuckled Bob-Cat, who was standing by enjoying every word,
"why, cockle-burs ain't nothin' to him."

"But, supposin'," the old scout began gently, "I told you that the
sorrel was the worst you could have, not the best?"

"But he ain't," broke in Bob-Cat, who could not bear to hear a friend's
pony harshly criticised, "that's one of Bluey's string, an' he allers
had good horses."

"There--you hear," said Wilbur triumphantly.

"I said--for the boy, Bob-Cat," answered the old Ranger firmly.

"I--I suppose you would have good reasons," said Wilbur, answering the
old scout's question, "but I want him just the same, and I don't see why
I can't buy him, if he's for sale. It's my money!"

"Sure, it's your money. An' the sorrel's a good horse," said the cowboy,
to whom the persistence of Wilbur was giving great delight.

The Ranger slowly turned his head in silent rebuke, but although Bob-Cat
was conscious of it, he was enjoying the fun too much to stop.

"You know he couldn't ride the sorrel, Bob-Cat," said Rifle-Eye
reproachfully.

"But I can ride him, I know," said Wilbur. "I'm a good rider, really I
am. And he looks gentle, besides. He is gentle, isn't he, Bob-Cat?"

"He's playful enough," was the reply, "some like a kitten, an' he surely
is plenty restless in his habits. But where he shines is nerves. Why,
pard, he c'd make a parcel of females besieged by a mouse look as if
they was posin' for a picter, they'd be so still by comparison. But he's
gentle, all right."

"I wouldn't want to try it if he was vicious, Rifle-Eye," said the boy
appealingly, "but I really can ride, and he looks like a good horse."

"Are you buyin' this horse for your own pleasure or the work o' the
Service? You're goin' to do your ridin' on my range, an' I reckon you'll
admit I have some say."

"But I can break him to the work of the Service. Do let me try him!"
Wilbur's persistence appeared in every look and word. "I don't see why I
can't try, anyway, and then if I can't do it, there's no harm done."

"Can you throw a rope?" queried the Ranger.

"No," returned the boy promptly. "I never learned. But I can try."

"If you can't rope, how do you expect to saddle him? These ain't farm
horses that you c'n harness or saddle while they eat oats out of your
hand." He turned to the cowboy. "Can the sorrel be saddled without
ropin'?"

"Bluey does," was the reply, "but I don't know that he'll let me."

"Won't you saddle him for me, Bob-Cat? I know I can ride him if I have a
fair show."

The range-rider turned to the old Ranger.

"How about it?" he said. "The kid'll hunt leather for a while and then
eat grass. But there's nothin' mean in the sorrel, an' he won't get
hurt."

"I'll ride him," said Wilbur stoutly.

"You might, at that," rejoined Bob-Cat. "He's a game little sport,
Rifle-Eye," he added, turning to the tall figure beside him, "why not
let him play his hand out? You can't be dead sure how the spots will
fall. Sure, I've twice seen an Eastern maverick driftin' into a faro
game, an' by fools' luck cleanin' up the bank."

"If a man's a fool who depends on luck, what kind of a fool is the man
who depends on fools' luck? You ain't playin' a square deal, Bob-Cat, in
supportin' the lad to go on askin' to do what ain't good for him. But
seein' you force my hand, why, you'd better go ahead now."

"I didn't force your hand none," replied the other, "I was merely
throwin' out a suggestion."

"If I refuse the boy somethin' another man says is all right, doesn't
that make it look as ef it was meanness in me? An' he goin' to work with
me, too! What's the use o' sayin' that you ain't forcin' my hand? Givin'
advice, Bob-Cat, ain't any go-as-you-please proposition; it's got to be
thought out. Feelin's don't allers point the right trail to jedgment,
an', as often as not, the blazes lead the wrong way. You're all right
in your own way, Bob-Cat, but you're shy on roots, and your idees gets a
windfall every time an extra puff comes along. You're like the trees
settlers forgets about when they cuts on the outside of a forest an'
ruins the inside."

"How is that?" asked Wilbur, anxious to divert the stream of Rifle-Eye's
criticism from the cowboy, who had got himself into trouble defending
him. "I didn't know there was any difference between a tree on the
outside of a forest and one on the inside."

"Wa'al, then, I guess you're due to learn right now. If there's a tree
of any size, standin' out by itself on a mountain side, with plenty of
leaves, an' a big wind comes along, you c'n see easy enough that she
presents a heap of surface to the wind. An' when a mountain gale gets up
and blows fer fair, there's a pressure of air on that tree amountin' to
several tons."

"Tons?" queried Bob-Cat incredulously.

"Tons," answered the old Banger. "A tree needs to have some strength in
order to hold up its end. There's three ways o' doin' it. One is by
havin' a lot more give in the fibers, more elastic like, so that the
tree'll bend in the wind an' not get snapped off; another is by puttin'
out a lot o' roots an' shovin' 'em in deep an' at the same time havin' a
trunk that's plenty stout; an' the third is the thickenin' o' the trunk,
right near the ground, where the greatest part o' the strain comes. An'
all the various kinds o' trees works this out in different ways. But
nothin's ever wasted, an'--"

"Oh, I see now," broke in Wilbur. "You're going to say that the trees
which don't grow on the outside of a forest don't have to waste vitality
into these forms of resistance."

"That's right. A tree that grows in a ravine, where there is little
chance of a high wind, an' where light is scarce an' hard to get, such a
tree will have a shallow root system an' a spindlin' trunk, all the
growth havin' gone to height, an' a tree in the center of a forest is
often the same way. The wind can't git through the forest, an' so the
trees don't need ter prop themselves against it."

"Talk about yer eddicated trees!" ejaculated the cowboy, "which colleges
is a fool to them."

"It's true enough, Bob-Cat, just the same. But supposin' a belt on the
outside o' the forest is cut down, then the inner trees, thus exposed,
haven't any proper weapons to fight the wind, an' they go down."

"Doesn't it take a very high wind to blow down some of these big trees?"
asked Wilbur.

"Some kinds it does," said the Ranger, "but there's others that go down
pretty easy, lodge-pole pine, fer instance. But a tree doesn't have to
be blown down to be ruined. Even if a branch is blown off--an' you know
how often that happens--insects and fungi get into the wound of the tree
and decay follows."

"But you can't persuade the wind none," objected Bob-Cat. "If she's
goin' to blow, she's goin' to blow, an' that's all there is to it."

"No, it ain't any use arguin' with a fifty-mile breeze, that's sure. But
you can keep the inside trees from bein' blown down by leavin' uncut the
deep-rooted trees on the outside. Edward took her hand and cried:
"We do not want this day in the hospital termination! Sister is merciful
to them too well. Even without us, the seemingly dead awake and
alive to dry."

Charlotte and went silent.

Some followed her, these other , eventually no one wanted to the last,
and followed it all. Eduard and Ottilie were alone among the trees. He
insisted to stay, so much so frightened she asked him, with her to
return to the palace. "No, Ottilie!

" he cried, "the extraordinary does not happen on plain, ordinary ways.
This surprising occurrence of this evening will bring us together
faster.

Du bist die My!

dirs I have already so often said, and swore, and we want it no
more to say and swear, now should it be.

"The boat from the other side swam across.

It was the valet, who embarrassed asked now what with the fireworks
should be." burns it off! " he called him. "For you alone, it was ordered,
Ottilie, and now thou shalt see it alone!

Allow me, sitting at your side, it mitzugenießen." Affectionate humble
he sat down beside her, without touching. rocket to noisy, cannon
thundered blows, flares went up, and revelers wound burst, foam wheels,
each only individually, then together, then all together and increasingly
violent in a row together. Eduard whose bosom burned, followed by
lively satisfied glance these fiery phenomena.

Ottilien delicate, agitated mind was this wild, lightning-emergence and
disappearance of more than pleasantly frightened. They leaned shyly
to Edward, which this approximation, the full confidence of this feeling
was that they belong entirely to him. The night was hardly in their
rights have reappeared when the moon was up and the paths of the two
returning light. A figure, hat in hand, took them the way and she said
to a charity, as he at this festive days had failed.

The moon shone in his face , and Eduard recognized the features of
such benign and intrusive beggar. But as happy as he was, he
could not be indignant, it could not invade it, especially now that
the begging höchlich been frowned upon. He researched not last long in
his pocket and gave a gold piece out. He would have liked everyone
happy, because his luck seemed without limits. At home, however, everything
was desired success.

The work of the surgeons, the willingness of all necessary, counsel for
Charlotte, everything worked together, and the boy was brought back to
life produced . The guests dispersed, either something from the fireworks
from afar to see, as well as for such scenes verworrnen her quiet home
again to enter. Also, the captain, quickly umgekleidet, on the
necessary precautionary active share taken, everything was calmed down,
and he found himself alone with Charlotten. By trusting kindness, he said
that his departure close bevorstehe. She had this evening so much
experience that this discovery little impression they made, they had seen
the friend aufopferte, how he saved himself and was rescued. These
wonderful events seemed to her an important future, but not unhappy to
prophesy.

Eduards, with Ottilien hereintrat, was the impending departure of
the captain also be announced. He argwohnte that Charlotte once more
known to have , but was too busy with himself and his intentions
employs as he felt it would be amiss.

On the contrary, he heard the alert and happy and good honorable
position in which the captain should be moved. unruly penetrated
his secret wishes to events before.

Even with those he saw Charlotten associated with Ottilien. We could have
him at this festival no greater gift can make.

But how Ottilie was surprised when she came to her room and the delicious
small suitcase found on their tables, you are not lined, him to open.
Since everything was so beautifully packaged and arranged that they are
not apart, hardly dared to air. muslin, cambric, silk, lace shawls and
competed in finesse, delicacy and preciousness. Even the jewelry
was not forgotten.

They understood well the intentions, it more than once from head to foot
on the dressing, but it was all so precious and strange, that they
were not thought zuzueignen dared. The next morning the captain was gone,
and a grateful felt sheet the friends he left behind. He and Charlotte
had already half the evening and made monosyllabic farewell.

They felt an eternal separation and was burned, as in the second
letter of the Count, the Captain of their last announced, was also
a view of an advantageous marriage question, and this point, although
he gave no attention, so they gave the thing already and certainly
entsagte him purely and completely.

By contrast, she also believed the violence, which they exercised over
himself, from others call them. She was not impossible, others should
be the same.

In this sense she started the conversation with her husband, the
more open and confident than they felt that the matter once and
for all be dismissed.

"Our friend has to leave us," she said, "we are now once again against
each other on as formerly, and it would now seem to us, whether
we fully back in the old state wanted to return.

"Eduard, who heard nothing, as his passion was flattered and thought
that by these words of Charlotte the previous call and widowhood,
although an indeterminate way to a divorce would hope.

He replied with a smile so "why not? It would only depend on the
understanding that one." He was therefore not very cheated when Charlotte
returned: "Ottilien also in a different situation bring, we currently
only have to choose, because there is a double opportunity to give
their relationship, which for them are desirable. You can return the
board, because my daughter to great-aunt is pulled, they can be used
in a reputable house of in order with a single daughter standesmäßigen
all the benefits of education to enjoy. "However," quite taken transferees
Eduard, Ottilie has in our society so spoiled that you probably hardly
any other wants to be accepted "." We have spoiled us all, "said
Charlotte," and you were not to last.

However, it is an epoch, which prompts us to reflect that we
earnestly exhorted, to the best of all the members of our small circle
of thinking and also not to sacrifice any failure " . 'At least I
think it is not cheap, "returned Edward," that will aufgeopfert
Ottilie, and this happened but if it is currently under foreign people
hinunterstieße. The captain has his good skill visited here, we must rest
with him, even with comfort from divides us leave. Who knows what
Ottilien is imminent, why should we übereilen? "" What stands before
us, is quite clear, "returned Charlotte, with some movement, and since
they had the intention and for all is out, drove she continued:
"Ottilien you love, you accustom yourself to them. inclination and
passion stems from and is nurtured by her side.

Why should we not pronounce words, giving us every hour and confesses
confesses? If we do not have as much caution us to ask what will be? "
"If you do not immediately reply," returned Edward, who zusammennahm,
"so much but can say that just then decides on the first waiting
to see what we will teach the future, if you just can not say, what
a thing to be. "" Here anticipate, "returned Charlotte," it probably
requires no great wisdom, and so much can be extended to all cases
equally say that we are both no longer young enough to blindly to
go where you do not want to or not.

No one can make more for us, we have our own friends, our own
Hofmeister.

Nobody expects us that we are in an extreme to lose, nobody expects us
reprehensible, or even ridiculous to find " ". verdenken Can you give
me," returned Edward, the open, pure language of his wife could not
reciprocate, "you can scold me if I Ottilien happiness at heart? And
not about a future that is always not to be calculated but a present?
Think you honestly and without self-deception Ottilien torn from
our society and give people under alien - at least I'm not cruel
enough, its such a change be expected.

"Charlotte was probably even the determination of her husband behind his
adjustment aware.

Only now she felt how far he had removed from it.

With some movement she exclaimed: "Ottilie can be happy if it divides
us, if they give me a husband, a father to his children snatches?"

"For our children, dächte I would care," said Eduard smile and cold,
but a little courtesy, he added: "who will also consider the extreme!"

"This is the ultimate passion for the immediate," said Charlotte.
"Lehne, while there is still time, the Council is not good, not the Hülfe
that I offer us. In murky cases must act and help those who most
clearly see .

This time I ichs.

Dear, dearest Eduard, let me grant! Can you expect of me that I am on
my VESTED lucky that the nicest rights to you so geradehin waiver
afford it?

"" Who said that? "Exclaimed Edward, with some embarrassment." Yourself
"returned Charlotte," by going near Ottilien want to keep, do not you
confess everything to what it must originate?

I do not want to invade you, but if you can not overcome, then you at
least yourself not long more betriegen able.

"Eduard felt, how right it had.

A sharp word is awful, if it decides at once that the heart has
long allowed, and only to evade for the moment, Eduard replied:" I
am not yet even clear what you plan. "" My intention was, "returned
Charlotte," with you the two proposals to consider.

Both have a lot of good.

Ottilien The pension would be in accordance with the most, when I
consider how the child is now.

Those larger and more capable but more promising, if I remember
what they want.

"She pointed her awkward husband, the two conditions and concluded
with the words:" what my opinion is concerned, I would house the
lady of the Pension prefer from several causes, but especially
because I have the inclination, and indeed the passion of the young
man, the Ottilie there is obtained, will not proliferate.

"Eduard seemed to give her applause, but only for some to seek
postponement.

Charlotte, the pointed out, something crucial to do so, immediately
seized the opportunity, when Edward is not directly contradicted, the
departure Ottilien to which they have everything in quiet had prepared
for the next few days to fix.

Eduard shivered, he felt betrayed and for the loving language invented
for his wife, artificial and planned to turn it on by his fortunes
forever be separated.

It seemed to her the whole thing to leave, alone was to be decided
internally.

In order to breath only to come to see the impending doom unabsehliche
Ottilien distance away, he decided, to leave his house, and not entirely
without Vorbewußt Charlotte, which he, however, the introduction
to deceive understood that he is not currently Ottilien his
departure, even from this moment on no longer see wanted.

Charlotte, which believed to have won, he did all the feed. He ordered
his horse, gave the valet the necessary instructions of what to
pack it and how he should follow him, and so, as in the offhand,
he sat down and wrote.

"The evil, my love, has attacked us, may be curable or not, I feel
this is: in the moments when I should not despair, I must defer find
for me, for us all. As I aufopfre, I can call. I am leaving my
house and only come under more favorable, quiet, open back. Thou shalt
have it, however, but with Ottilien.

If you want I know, not strangers. concern for them, treat them as
usual, as so far, just always loving, kind and gentle. I promise,
not a clandestine relationship with Ottilien to search. Let me rather
a long time entirely ignorant of how their lives and I want the best I
think. Think of me as well. But what I ask you, on the most intimate, the
liveliest: do not attempt to Ottilien somewhere else unterzugeben
in new relationships to bring!

In addition to the district of your castle, your parks, entrusted to
educate people, it belongs to me and I will conquer their .

Ehrst you but my passion, my desires, my pain, you are flattering my
folly, my hopes, I will also seek recovery not resist when they
offered me.

"These last words flowed from his pen, not from the heart . Yes, as he
looked on paper, he began to weep bitterly. He should be in any way to
happiness, so the accident, Ottilien to love abdicate Now he felt
what he did.

It is removed without know what it could have. He should at least not
now again, if it ever widersähe, what security he could promise
that?

But the letter was written, the horses stood in front of the door, every
moment he had to fear that somewhere Ottilien to behold and yet his
determination to frustrate. He took that he thought that it was possible
but every moment and go back straight away by his wishes to come
closer.

On the contrary, he is Ottilien before, pushed out of the house if he
would.

He sealed the letter, ran down the stairs and swung to the horse.

When he was at the inn is gone, he saw the beggar sitting in the
porch, the last night he presented was so plentiful.

This sat snugly on his lunch Mahle, stood up and bowed in reverence,
adoration before Eduards yes. It is this figure had appeared to him
yesterday when he Ottilien led by the arm, now she reminded him
painfully to the happiest hour of his life.

His suffering is propagated and the feeling of what he became, it
was unbearable to him, again he looked after the beggar: "o thou Enviable!"
he exclaimed, "you can still live on alms yesterday and I am no
longer yesterday's fortunes!"

Ottilie came to the window when she heard someone Wegreiten, and saw
Eduards still in the back.

It was her beautiful before, that he left the house without having seen
it, without offering her a good morning too.

It was always restless and thoughtful, as Charlotte them on a long
walk with it and moved some of said objects, but the husband, and
how it seemed to intentionally not mentioned.

Twice she was concerned, therefore, in their Zurückkunft the table
with only two covers busy to find.

We miss reluctant seemingly minor habits, but sadly, we only lacking in
such an important case. Eduard and the captain were missing, Charlotte
had been a long time for the first time, ordered the table itself, and
it wanted Ottilien seem as if they would be dismissed. The two women
sat against each other on; Charlotte spoke quite at ease on the job of
the captain and a few of the hope of him soon again.

The only Ottilien comforted in its position that they believe could
Eduard had to stretch a friend to accompany him nachgeritten.
exclusive of tables as they revolt, they saw Eduards travel under
the car window, and as a somewhat unwilling Charlotte asked who
ordered him hieher, so she replied that it was the valet, who still
wanted aufpacken.

Ottilie took their entire text to their surprise and to hide their pain.
The valet came here and demanded a lot. It was a cup of the Lord's mouth,
a couple of silver spoons and some what Ottilien on another journey, a
longer stay outside seemed to suggest.

Charlottenstrasse pointed his desire, quite dry, they do not
understand what he wanted to say, because he did everything that
relates to the Lord, even in the decision.

The man handily, which is admittedly only a matter to be done was to speak
and Ottilien so they under any pretext from the room to attract, knew to
apologize and on his desire to insist that he Ottilie also wish to
grant; Charlotte alone rejected the valet had to remove and the car
rolled to continue. It was Ottilien for a terrible moment. You do not
understand it, they understood it not, but that it takes time to Eduard
was snatched, she could feel. Charlottenstrasse felt with the state and
left them alone. We dare not, their pain, their tears on describe.

She suffered endlessly. They just asked God that he is her only wish
this day weghelfen they survived the day and night, and when she
recovered, she believed, another being encountered.

She had not taken to not revealed, but it was so great losses are still
there and still had more to fear. Your next concern, after consciousness
returned, was at once, she would now, after removal of the men,
also be removed.

They knew nothing of Eduards threats , making it next to the residence
was secured Charlotten, but her demeanor has served Charlotte for
some reassurance.

This looked a good child and had to employ it only rarely, are reluctant
to own, and whether they nonetheless knew that you not with words
much against a strong passion to work interview, so they knew the
power of prudence, of consciousness, and brought so much between
themselves and to Ottilien language.

So it was for such a great consolation, than those with uncommon
care, and the intent of Viewing in place: "How vividly," she said,
"the gratitude of those whom we are passionate about peace embarrassment
beyond help!

Let us joyfully and cheerfully intervene in what the men have left
unfinished, so we prepare ourselves the best prospect their return
by making, what their key Stürm, impatient nature wants to destroy ours
by maintaining and promoting moderation "." Since you speak of moderation,
my dear aunt, "returned Ottilie," I can not hide that I am the immoderation
of men, especially in the wine, mind. How often has it saddens me
and geängstigt if I had to notice that pure intellect, wisdom,
protection of others, grace and kindness, even for several hours
were lost, and often instead of all of the good, what a splendid
man arise and to grant the interview, and mischief confusion
hereinzubrechen threatened!

How often violent resolutions may thereby be induced! "Charlotte gave her,
but she did not continue the conversation, because she felt only
too well that here again Eduards Ottilie just had in mind, although
not usually but more often than it was desirable, his pleasure, his
communicativeness its activities through an occasional enjoyment
of wine to increase the habit.

They lived right down with Nature, an' they larned that if she was
rugged, she was kind. They became rugged an' kind, too. An' that's what
the right sort of American is to this day."

"A lot of our best statesmen in early days were from the newly cleared
settlements; that's a fact," said Wilbur thoughtfully, "right up to the
Civil War."

"An' through it!" added the Ranger. "How about Abe Lincoln?"

Wilbur thought to himself that perhaps "backwoodsman" was not quite a
fair idea of the great President's Illinois upbringing, but he thought
it wiser not to argue the point to no profit.

"But it's all different now," continued Rifle-Eye a trifle sadly,
"things have changed an' the city's beginnin' to have a bigger hold than
the forest. An' the forest still needs, an' I reckon it allers will
need, the old kind o' men. Once we had to fight tooth an' nail agin the
forest jest to get enough land to live on, an' now we've got to fight
jest as hard for the forest so as there'll be enough of it for what we
need. In this here country you can't ever get away from the
woods-dweller, whether he's backwoodsman or Forester, or whatever you
call him--the man who can depend on himself an' live his life wherever
there's sky overhead an' ground underfoot an' trees between.

"They're the discoverers of America, too. Oh, yes, they are," he
continued, noting Wilbur's look of contradiction. "It wasn't Columbus or
Amerigo or any o' the floatin' adventurers who first saw a blue splotch
o' land on the horizon that discovered America. It was the men who
conquered the forest, who found all, did all, an' became all that the
life demanded, that really brought into bein' America an' the
Americans."

The Ranger stopped as suddenly as he had begun, and, touching his horse
lightly with the spur, went on ahead up the trail. Evidently he was
thinking of the old times and the boy had wisdom enough not to disturb
him. As the afternoon drew on the foothills were left behind and the
open road became more and more enclosed, until at last it was simply a
trail through the forest. The shadows were lengthening and it was
drawing on toward evening, when the Ranger halted beside a little
ravine, densely wooded with yellow pine, incense cedar, and white fir.
Wilbur was tired and his horses, fresh to the trail, were showing signs
of fatigue, so he was glad to stop.

"I don't know how you feel about it," said the Ranger, "but I reckon
I'll camp here. There's a good spring a couple of hundred feet down
stream. But you ain't used to this sort o' thing, an' maybe you'd better
keep on the trail for another half-mile till you come to a little
settlement. Somebody can put you up, I reckon."

"No need to," said the boy, "I'll camp here with you."

"Maybe you ain't used to sleepin' on the ground."

"I guess I can stand it, if you can," replied Wilbur promptly.

"Wa'al, I reckon I can," said the Ranger, "seein' that I always have an'
always do."

Wilbur had never camped in the open before without a tent or shelter of
some kind, but he would not for the world have had his Ranger think that
he was in the least disconcerted. Neither, to do him justice, was he,
but rather anticipating the night under the open sky with a good deal of
pleasure.

After the horses were unsaddled and hobbled, Rifle-Eye told Wilbur to
get the beds ready. The boy, greatly pleased with himself that he knew
how to do this without being told, picked up his ax and started for the
nearest balsam. But he found himself in somewhat of a difficulty. The
white fir grew to a much larger tree than the Balm-of-Gilead he had
known in the East, and the lower branches were tough. So he chopped down
a young tree near, scarcely more than a sapling.

A moment later he heard the Ranger call to him.

"How many trees of that size do you reckon you'll want?" he asked.

"Oh, they're only just saplings," the boy replied, "five or six ought to
do."

"They'll make five or six fine trees some day, won't they?" queried the
old woodsman.

"Yes, Rifle-Eye, they will," answered the boy, flushing at his lack of
thoughtfulness. "I'd better take only one, and that a little bigger,
hadn't I?"

"An' one that's crooked. Always take a tree that isn't goin' to make
good timber when you're not cuttin' for timber."

Wilbur accordingly felled a small white fir near by, having had his
first practical lesson of forest economy on his own forest, stripped the
tree of its fans or flattest branches and laid them on the ground. A
thickness of about six inches, he found, was enough to make the beds
wonderfully springy and comfortable.

In the meantime he found that Rifle-Eye was getting a fireplace ready,
using for the purpose some flat stones which lay conveniently near by.
Wilbur, stepping over a tiny rivulet which ran into the creek, noted a
couple of stones apparently just suited for the making of a rough
fireplace and brought them along. The Ranger looked at them.

"What kind o' stone do you call that?" he asked.

"Granite," said Wilbur immediately.

"An' you took them out o' the water?"

"Yes," answered the boy.

"An' what happens when you build a fire between granite stones?"

"I don't know, Rifle-Eye. What does?"

"They explode sometimes, leastways, when they're wet inside. Don't
forget that," he added as he put the stones aside. "Now," he continued,
"go down to the spring an' fill this pot with water, an' I'll have a
fire goin' an' some grub sizzlin' by the time you get back. The spring
is about two hundred feet downstream and about twenty feet above the
water. You can't miss it."

Wilbur took the aluminum pot and started for the spring. He had not gone
half the distance when he noted a stout crotched stick such as he had
been used to getting when he camped out in the middle West for the
purpose of hanging the cooking utensils on over the fire. So he picked
it up and carried it along with him. Presently the gurgling of water
told him that he was nearing the spring, and a moment later he saw the
clearing through the trees. But, suddenly, a low snarling met his ears,
and he halted dead at the edge of the clearing.

There, before him, on the ground immediately beside the spring, crouched
a large wild-cat, the hairy tips of her ears twitching nervously. Under
her claws was a rabbit, evidently just caught, into which the wild-cat
had just sunk her teeth when the approach of the boy was heard. At first
Wilbur could not understand why she had not sprung into the woods with
her prey at the first distant twig-snapping which would betoken his
approach. But as he looked more closely he saw that this was precisely
what the cat had tried to do, but that in the jerk the rabbit had been
caught and partly impaled on a tree root that projected above the
ground, and for the moment the cat could not budge it.

Wilbur was utterly at a loss to know what to do. He had been told that
wild-cats would never attack any one unless they had been provoked to
fight, and he found himself very unwilling to provoke this particular
specimen. The cat stood still, her eyes narrowed to mere slits, the ears
slightly moving, and the tip of the tail flicking from side to side in
quick, angry jerks. There was menace in every line of the wild-cat's
pose.

The boy had his revolver with him, but while he had occasionally fired a
six-shooter, he was by no means a crack shot, and he realized that if he
fired at and only wounded the creature he would unquestionably be
attacked. And there was a lithe suppleness in the manner that the
movement of the muscles rippled over the skin that was alarmingly
suggestive of ferocity. Wilbur did not like the looks of it at all. On
the other hand, he had not the slightest intention of going back to the
camp without water. He had come for water, and he would carry water
back, he thought to himself, if a regiment of bob-cats was in the way.

The old fable that a wild beast cannot stand the gaze of the human eye
recurred to Wilbur's remembrance, and he stood at the edge of the
clearing regarding the cat fixedly. But the snarls only grew the louder.
Wilbur was frightened, and he knew it, and what was more, he felt the
cat knew it with that intuition the wild animals have for recognizing
danger or the absence of danger. She made another effort to drag away
the rabbit, but failing in that, with an angry yowl, with quick jerks
and rending of her powerful jaws began to try to force the rabbit free
from the entangling root, which done, she could carry it into the forest
to devour at leisure. The ease with which those claws and teeth rent
asunder the yielding flesh was an instructive sight for Wilbur, but the
fact that the wild-cat should dare to go on striving to free her prey
instead of slinking away in fright made the boy angry. Besides, he had
come for that water.

Wilbur decided to advance into the clearing anyway, and then, if the
creature did not stir, he would be so near that he couldn't miss her
with the revolver. As he grew angrier his fear began to leave him. He
took the pot in his left hand, putting the long stick under his arm,
and, drawing his six-shooter, advanced on the cat. He came forward
slowly, but without hesitation. At his second step forward the wild-cat
raised her head, but instead of springing at him, as Wilbur half feared,
she retreated into the woods, leaving her prey, snarling as she went.
Wilbur went boldly forward to the spring, and, thinking that he would
see no more of the cat, put away his revolver.

Having secured the water, and as he turned to go, however, the boy felt
a sudden impulse to look up. He had not heard a sound, and yet, on a low
branch a few feet above his head, crouched the wild-cat, her eyes
glaring yellow in the waning light. Once again he felt the temptation to
shoot her, but resisted it, through his fear of only wounding the
creature and thus bringing her full fury upon him.

But it occurred to Wilbur that it was not unlikely that he might have to
come back to the spring a second time for more water, and he did not
wish to risk another encounter. He thought to himself that if he did
return and interrupted the wild-cat a second time he would not escape as
easily as he had on this occasion, and consequently he tried to devise a
means to prevent such meeting. He figured that if he picked up the
rabbit and threw it far into the woods the cat would follow and the path
to the spring would be open. Forgetting for the moment that he could not
expect the angry creature in the tree to divine the honesty of his
intentions, he stooped down and grasped the rabbit by the leg to throw
it into the forest. As he did so, the wild-cat, thinking herself about
to be deprived of her prey, sprang at him.

With one hand holding the pot of water, which, boy-like, he did not want
to spill, and the other grasping the rabbit, Wilbur was terribly
handicapped. But, by the greatest good fortune, as he stooped, the
crotch of the stick that he was carrying caught the wild-cat under the
body as she launched herself at him from the tree. The stick was
knocked out of the boy's grasp, but it also turned the cat aside, and
she half fell, landing on Wilbur's outstretched leg, instead of on his
neck, which was the objective point in her spring. As her claws ripped
into the soft flesh of his thigh, Wilbur released his hold of the
rabbit, drew his revolver, and fired full at the creature hanging on his
leg.

Almost instantaneously with the shot, however, one of her foreclaws shot
out and caught the back of his right hand, making a long but superficial
gash from the wrist to the knuckles. At the same time, too, one of her
hind claws struck down, opening the calf of the leg and making the boy
sick for a moment. His right hand was bleeding vigorously and paining a
good deal, but his finger was still on the trigger and Wilbur fired
again. A moment later, the Ranger came running into the clearing. But
before he reached the boy's side the cat had fallen limply to the
ground. The second shot had gone clear through her skull, and, being
fired at point-blank distance, had almost blown her head off.

The old Ranger, without wasting time in words, quickly examined the
boy's injuries and found them slight, although they were bleeding
profusely. Wilbur reached out the pot full of water from the spring.

"Here's the water, Rifle-Eye," he said a little quaveringly; "I hardly
spilled a drop."

The old woodsman took the vessel without a word. Then he looked down at
the cat.

"Just as well for you," he said, "that it wasn't a true lynx. But how
did she get at your leg? Did you walk on her, or kick her, just for
fun?"

Wilbur, laughing a little nervously from the reaction of the excitement,
described how it was that the wild-cat had landed on his leg instead of
on his neck, and the old hunter nodded.

"It's a mighty lucky thing for you," he said, "that stick was there,
because there's a heap o' places around the neck where a clawin' ain't
healthy. But these scratches of yours won't take long to heal. Where you
were a fool," he continued, "was in touchin' the rabbit at all. It's
just as I told you. When you went quietly forward, you say, the bob-cat
got out of your road all right. Of course, that's what she ought to do.
And if you had filled the pot with water an' come away that's all
there'd have been to it. But jest as soon as you begin ter get mixed up
in the prey any varmint's killed, you've got ter begin considerin' the
chances o' joinin' the select company o' victims."

"But I wanted her out of the way for next time," said Wilbur.

"She'd have got out of your way so quick you couldn't see her go," said
the hunter, "if you'd given her a chance. Next time, leave a varmint's
dinner alone."

"Next time, I will," the boy declared.

"I guess now," continued the old hunter, "you'd better come back to camp
an' we'll see what we c'n do to improve them delicate attentions you've
received. An' don't be quite the same kind of an idiot again."

"Well," said Wilbur, "I got the water from the spring, anyhow."


[Illustration: PATROLLING A COYOTE FENCE.

The old Ranger and his hound safeguarding the grazing interests of the
forest.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: REDUCING THE WOLF SUPPLY.]


[Illustration: REDUCING THE WOLF SUPPLY.

Sport that is worth while, freeing the National Forests from beasts of
prey.

_Photographs by U. S. Forest Service._]


CHAPTER VI

IN THE HEART OF THE FOREST


Towards noon the next day, Wilbur and the Ranger rode up to the shack in
the woods which Rifle-Eye considered as one of his headquarters. As soon
as they reached the clearing they were met by a big, shambling youth,
whose general appearance and hesitating air proclaimed him to be the
half-witted lad of whom Wilbur had heard. He came forward and took the
horses.

"You've heard about Ben?" queried the hunter as the horses were being
led away.

"Yes," answered Wilbur, "Bob-Cat Bob told me all about the death of his
father during the sheep and cattle war. He told me when we were riding
up to the ranch, from the station at Sumber."

"I have thought," said Rifle-Eye, "that perhaps it ain't quite the right
thing to keep Ben here, up in the woods. But I tried sendin' him to
school. It wasn't no manner of use. It only troubled the teacher an'
bothered him, an' I reckon his life will stack up at the end jest as
well, even if he can't read."

"What does he do while you are away?" asked Wilbur.

"Oh, a lot of things. Will you continue to expend money and effort, it
would by the Mooshütte hinaufwärts and on the hill still some work
to do and much more pleasant to make.

"Were this way the two friends present on some jobs, so there is
no shortage of lively and fun memories bygone days, which probably
participate in the habit of Charlotte.

Also tried before, if only until the next work would be done on the travel
journals, and also to go on this way cause the past. incidentally had
Eduard Charlotten alone with less material for entertainment, particularly
Since then he blamed their parks, so he just seemed, at the very
heart felt. Langenfeld he failed, the captain what he had trusted,
but when he employs his wife last saw the Mooshütte up to the hill
again with Stüfchen and is Pfädchen emporzuarbeiten, so he no
longer held back, but made it after some ado with his new insights
known.

Charlotte was affected.

She was witty enough to quickly clear that those were right, but done
contrary, it was once done they had it right, they had found it desirable,
even that was blamed in each of its parts sweet, they were reluctant
convinced she defended her little creation, they switched to the
men, equal to the width and size went from a joke from an entertainment
like a plant wanted to do, not to think about the costs that a plan
be extended on the ground.

She was moving, injured, sullen, and the old could not let go, the new not
quite reject, but determined as she was, she immediately put to work
and took time to consider the matter and will be ready to leave.

By now, this active entertainment missing, however, because the men
always sociable their business operated, and especially the art and gardens
Glass houses with anxious zeal, even in between the usual knightly
exercises continued as hunting, horse-buying, exchange, prepare
and enter, it felt lonely Charlotte daily.

They also led their correspondence to the captain's sake lively, and yet
there were some lonely hour.

Desto pleasant and entertaining were their reports that they received
the pension institution. An extensive correspondence of the head,
which is usually about how the daughter of progress with ease
widespread, it was a short postscript is added, together with a
leaflet from the hand of a male Gehülfe at the institute, which we
both made.

"Ottilien From my Merciful, I would just repeat what is in my
previous reports.

I knew not to scold, but I can not be satisfied with it. It is remains
modest and pleasing others, but this Come back, this subservience will
not like me. Euer graces have their money, and recently sent several
vehicles.

The first has not attacked, the others are also still there, untouched.
It certainly keeps their things very neat and well and appears
only in this sense, the clothes to change.

Nor can I her great temperance in eating and drinking is not commendable.
On our table is not an abundance, but I see nothing better than if
the children of delicious and eat healthy meals. What with care and
conviction is presented and applied, should also be eaten. I can
never bring Ottilien.

Yes, it makes any business to fill a gap where the maids missed
something, just a food or dessert to go.

With all this in perspective, however, that they sometimes, as I
only later learned, headaches on the left side, although it passes,
but painful and may be significant. So much of this way, so beautiful
Baby and love "." Our excellent head usually lets me read the letters in
which they are observations about their pupils and the parents notifying
superiors.

Those who are in your grace have been addressed, I always read with
a double attention, with a double pleasure, because by offering a
lucky daughter to have hope that all those brilliant qualities
united, resulting in rises in the world, I must at least you're not
happy less praise that your daughter in your care a child gives is
that the well-being, to satisfaction of others, and certainly for
his own good fortune was born.

Ottilie is almost our only pupil, about which I so revered by our head
can not agree. I verarge this route make no woman, that it requires
you to be the fruits of their diligence and clearly see the outside,
but there are also sealed fruits, only the right, nuclear liability
and which is likely to sooner or later develop a beautiful life.

Likewise is Your daughter certainly care. As long as I teach, I see they
are always the same step, slowly, slowly forward, never back. When it
comes to a child is necessary to start from the beginning, it is
certainly up to her.

What does not follow from the foregoing , they do not understand. It is
incapable, even before a stöckisch easily understood thing for
them with nothing connected.

Can the funds and their members make it clear that it is so difficult
to understand.

Vorschreiten This will slow them against their Mitschülerinnen back,
with quite different skills vorwärtseilen always, everything, even
the incoherent, easily making it easy to apply and comfortable again.

To learn them, so they can at an accelerated Lecture nothing, as
is the case in a few hours, of what excellent, but the rapid and
impatient teachers be given.

It has been sued over their handwriting, about their inability to
identify the rules of grammar to be considered.

I have this complaint further investigated: it is true, she writes
slowly and stiffly, if you wants, but not timid and ill.

What I received from the French language, although my specialist
is not gradual announced they are easily understood.

Admittedly, it is wonderful: she knows a lot and quite well, only if
they ask, it seems nothing to know. Should I conclude with a general
comment, I would say that they learn not as one that should be brought
up, but as one that wants to educate, not as a student but as a
future teacher.

Maybe it is Your grace weird before that I myself as a teacher educator
and someone who no longer believe to praise, as if I have it on
my same state.

Euer graces greater insight, deeper people - and the world will be aware
from my limited, the most well-words.

They are convince them that even to this child a lot of joy to hope. I
commend me to grace and ask for the permission to write again as
soon as I believe that my letter mean something and will contain
Pleasant.

"Charlotte was very pleased with this sheet.

Its content was very close with the ideas together, which they had
Ottilien, while they could not contain a smile, by the proportion of
the teacher seemed to be cordial than the insight into the virtues of a
pupil produce cares.

In its quiet , unbiased thinking they had such a relationship, like
so many others before him, the participation of the husband to
understand Ottilien was worth it, because she had in her life enough
to see learned how high any real inclination to appreciate it in a
world where apathy and aversion actually quite at home.

The topographic map on which the estate with his surroundings after a
fairly large scale and characterized by tangible feather strokes
and colors, and what was the captain of some trigonometric measurements
to establish safe knew was soon done, for less active sleep than
this man had hardly anyone, as his day is always devoted to the
present purposes and so any time on evenings something was done.

"Let us now," he said to his friends, "and the rest go to which
Gutsbeschreibung what already prepared enough to be there, from the
later leases and other attacks have developed.

Only One thing let's fix and set up: disconnect everything really is
business, of life!

The business demands seriousness and rigor, the arbitrariness of
life and the business follow the purest, life does not often an
inconsistency, yes she is amiable and amusing.

Are you in one secure, so you can put in the other, the more freedom,
not that a confusion with the safer Free and swept away the repeal.

"Eduard felt in these proposals a faint reproach.

While not inherently messy, but he could never come to regard his
papers after abzuteilen subjects.

What he and others dismiss was just what he himself depended, it
was not divorced, as he also shops and employment, and distraction
Untrhaltung not enough of each other age.

Now it was easy, since a friend took over this effort, an alter
ego, the segregation effect in which one I do not always may be
split.

They built on the wings of a captain Repositur for the Present, an
archive of the past, created all the documents, papers, news from
various containers, chambers, cabinets and boxes of guilt, and the
speed was the jumble into a pleasing order, was rubriziert in
designated subjects.

What you wanted, was found complete, as we had hoped.

It went for a very old clerk at the hand of the day, so not a part
of the panels came from the Eduard has always dissatisfied had been.

"I know him no more," said Edward to his friend, "as active and
useful man is." - "That makes," returned the captain, "we have
nothing new to him, until he is old after its convenience has
completed, and so does he, as you can see, very much, when you
bother him, he can do nothing.

"brought the friends to help them in their days together, so they
missed the evening do not regularly visit Charlotten .

Did not the company of neighboring towns and goods, which often
happened, so the conversation was like reading most such objects
dedicated to the prosperity, the benefits and comfort of the bourgeois
society proliferate.

Charlotte, already accustomed to the present use , felt by her husband
looked happy, even personally promoted. Various domestic institutions,
which they have long desired, but not quite able to, through the activity
of the captain leads.

The local pharmacy, so far only a few funds existed, was Charlotte
enriched and so well understood by books than by interview in the
state of their operations and hülfreiches care more often and more
effectively than ever before to bring in the exercise.

As long as you are ordinary, and despite only too often surprising
emergencies out, it was everything was to rescue the drowned want
to be needed in order to purchase more than in some nearby ponds,
water and water utilities often one and the other accidents of this
kind occurred.

This section concerned the captain great detail, and Eduard
entschlüpfte the remark that such an event in the life of his friend
in the strangest way epoch made.

But when this one was silent and sad memories evade seemed, held
the same if it is Eduard, as well as Charlotte, no less, in general
was informed about those statements above.

"How do all these precautionary establishments commendable," said
one evening, the captain, "but now concerns us even more from a
minimum, a capable man who dont want to use white. hiezu I can I
know a Feldchirurgus propose now to leidlich condition to have, an
excellent man in his times, and I am also in the treatment of intense
inner evil is done more often than a famous doctor; Hülfe current
and is what is in the countryside will be most missed.

"Even this was immediately prescribed, and both husband rejoiced that
some amount to them to arbitrary expenditure remained on the need to use
the occasion found.

Charlotte Sun used the knowledge, the work of the captain, even after
their senses and began to with his presence completely satisfied
and all the consequences to be calmed down.

They are usually prepared before, some ask, and since they like to
live like, so they all looked Noxious everything Fatal be removed.

Bleiglasur of the pottery, the verdigris copper vessels it had already
done some concern. You could teach on this, and naturally had to be on
the basic concepts of physics and chemistry to go back. accidental,
but always a welcome occasion to such entertainments were Eduards
tendency of society to read.

He had a very melodious, deep voice and was due to vigorous, poetic
recitation perceived and oratorical works have been pleasant and
famous.

Now there were other items which employed him, other writings, which
he vorlas, and even for some time works excellent physical, chemical
and technical content.

A its special characteristics, which, however, he perhaps shares
with several people, was that it was unbearable to him, if someone
reading it in the book looked.

In earlier times, when reading aloud of poems, plays, stories, it was the
natural consequence animated intention of the lecture as well as
the poet, the actor, the narrative has to be surprised, pauses to
make expectations too excited, because it certainly intended effect
of this is very contrary, if a third party knowingly with eyes
vorspringt.

He also used it in such a case shall always be, that he had no one
in the back.

Now, three of this caution was unnecessary, and because this is not on
arousal of emotion, to surprise of the imagination was viewed, as he
thought himself not to much to take in eight. Only one night it fell
on him as he neglectfully had informed him that Charlotte was in the
book. His impatience old woke up, and he referred it to a certain
unfriendly, "but we wanted this bad habit, like so many others, what
the company is troublesome, and for all abgewöhnen!

When I read someone, is it not as if I give him something orally
vortrüge?

The writing, the print will replace my own mind, my own heart, and I
would probably try to talk when a window in front of my forehead
before my chest would be appropriate so that, which I thought
individually zuzählen, my sensations individually insufficient will
always long before might know where it is with me also wanted to?

If anyone sees the book, so I always as if I ripped into two pieces
would be.

"Charlotte, whose agility in larger and smaller circles especially
by proving that every unpleasant, any violent or even just vivid
expression to remove a conversation that extended to interrupt a
stock by encouraging knew this was from her gift is not good to
leave: "I think you will certainly forgive mistakes, if I confess
what happened to me this moment encountered.

I heard about affinities read, and because I thought just the same to
my relatives, to a few cousins that I just at this moment to make. My
attention turns back to your lecture, I hear that quite lifeless things
are mentioned, and you look into the book, find their way back to me.
"" It is a parable speech who try to seduce and confused, "said Edward."
This is admittedly only of earth and minerals traded, but the man is a
true Narcissus; bespiegelt everywhere he likes himself, he lies down
as a film around the world. " Yep! " drove the captain continued, "as he
treats everything except that he finds his wisdom as his folly, his
will as he lends his mercy to animals, plants, the elements
and the gods."

Would you like me, "returned Charlotte, "because I do not be too far from
the current interest away wants to teach only recently, as it
is actually here with the relationships that mean?" "I will probably
be happy to do so," replied the captain, against which Charlotte had
turned, "albeit only as good as I can, as I have about ten years ago,
learned what I have read. Whether you are in the scientific world
still thinks about whether it fits the newer teachings, I knew not to
say "." It is bad enough, "cried Edward," that is now nothing more for
his entire life to learn.
Thus he would call, as he reached a tree, "Sugar, thirty-four, six," by
which Wilbur understood him to mean that the tree was a sugar pine, that
it was thirty-four inches in diameter breast high, and that it would cut
into six logs of the regular sixteen-foot length. It probably would be
thirty or fifty feet higher, but the top could only be used for posts,
cordwood, and similar uses. Such a tree, having been estimated and
adjudged fit for sale, the lumberman would make a blaze with a small ax,
by slicing off a portion of bark about eight inches long, then turning
the head of the ax, whereon was "U. S." in raised letters, he would
whack the blaze, making a mark which was unchangeable. No other trees
than those so marked might be cut.

But as other trees were passed which were not good enough for
merchantable timber, he would call these rapidly, "Cedar, small,"
"Engelmann (spruce), eighteen," "Douglas (spruce), fourteen," all of
which were entered by the Supervisor, walking behind, in his cruising
book. At the same time he made full notes as to the condition of the
young forest, the presence of parasitic plants such as mistletoe, of
diseased trees, if any were found, of the nature of the soil, of the
drainage of the forest, and of the best way in which the timber sale was
to be logged in order to do the least possible damage to the forest.

In a half an hour or so Wilbur dropped back to the Supervisor.

"I think, sir," he said, "that I can do that without any trouble. But I
can't do it as fast as McGinnis, sir, for he can tell the size of a
tree just by looking at it. I shall have to use the calipers for a day
or two."

Merritt looked at him.

"For a day or two?" he said. "McGinnis has been doing it for thirty
years. In these Western forests, too. You take him to an Eastern forest
and even now he wouldn't be sure of estimating correctly. You use the
calipers for a year or two!"

Wilbur, accordingly, quickened his pace, and, going along a little to
the left and in advance of the Supervisor, took up his share of the
work. He found that he had to depend entirely upon McGinnis for his
compass direction, and that he was only doing about one tree to
McGinnis' six, but still every hour that passed by gave him greater
confidence. The afternoon was wearing away when suddenly they came to a
part of the forest in which some timber seemed to have been cut during
the winter preceding. McGinnis dropped back.

"Sure, ye didn't tell me that any of this had been cut over," he said
aggrievedly.

"It hasn't, so far as I know," said Merritt. He put his book in his
pocket and walked on briskly for a few hundred yards. Although the
logging had been done the preceding winter the signs were clear for
those who could read them determining the direction in which the logs
had been taken.

"That's Peavey Jo's work," said the Supervisor at last. "I reckon this
is where he begins to find trouble on his hands. We'll find out,
McGinnis, how much of this timber he has stolen, measure up the stumps
and make him pay for every stick he's taken."

"Ye'd better leave Peavey Jo alone. They used to call him 'The Canuck
Brute,'" remarked McGinnis.

"He will pay," repeated Merritt quietly, "for every foot that he's got.
And I'll see that he does."

"You'll have the fight of your life."

"What of it! You don't want to back out?"

"Back out? Me? I will not! But it'll be a jim-dandy of a scrap."

The Supervisor turned to Wilbur.

"Measure," he said, "the diameter of all those stumps and mark with a
bit of chalk those you have measured. We'll talk to Peavey Jo in a day
or two."


[Illustration: WHERE BEN AND MICKEY BURNED THE BRUSH.

Getting rid of slashings which otherwise might feed a forest fire.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: THE CABIN OF THE OLD RANGER.

Where Wilbur stayed a couple of days recovering from the wild-cat's
scratches.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: STAMPING IT GOVERNMENT PROPERTY.

McGinnis marking "U. S." on timber that has been scaled and measured up.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


CHAPTER VII

WILBUR IN HIS OWN CAMP


"I should think," said Wilbur at headquarters that night, when the
timber theft of Peavey Jo was being discussed, "that it would be mighty
hard to prove that the timber had been taken."

"Why?" asked the Supervisor.

"Well, we can see how the logs were drawn, and so forth, but you can't
bring those driveways into court very well, and put them before the
judge as Exhibit A, or anything?"

"You could bring affidavits, couldn't you? But there are few who want to
go to law about it. A man knows he can't buck the government on a fake
case. We have very little trouble now, but there used to be a lot of
it."

"Did you ever have to use weapons, Mr. Merritt?" asked the boy,
remembering the story he had heard in Washington about the tie-cutters.

"No," was the instant reply. "You don't handle people with a gun any
more in California than you do in New York. These aren't the days of
Forty-nine."

"But I thought the 'old-timers' still carried guns," persisted the boy.

"Very few do now. But I got into trouble once, or thought I was going
to, when I was a Ranger in the Gunnison Forest. It involved some Douglas
fir telephone poles. This trespass was done while I was in town for a
while in the Supervisor's office. When I came back I happened to pass by
this man's camp, and seeing a lot of telephone poles, I asked if they
had been cut in the forest. The man was a good deal of a bully, and he
ordered me off the place. He said he didn't have to answer any
questions, and wasn't going to."

"Did you go?" asked Wilbur.

"Certainly I went. What would be the use of staying around there? But
before I left I got a kind of an answer. He said he had shipped in these
telephone poles from another part of the State."

"Sure, that was a fairy tale," said McGinnis.

"Of course it was. I went into the forest and searched around, although
there had been a recent fall of snow, until I found the place where most
of the poles had been cut. Then I went back to the trespasser and told
him, saying I would prove to him that it was on government ground.

"He agreed, and we rode to the place. He took his Winchester along and
carried it over his shoulder. He wasn't carrying it in the usual way,
but had his hand almost level with his shoulder so that the barrel
pointed in my direction. I noticed, too, that he was playing with the
trigger. It seemed likely that it might suit his purposes rather well if
I was accidentally killed. But each time I cantered up close to him, the
barrel returned to its natural position.

"Presently, as we rode along, we came to a waterfall, not a big one, but
falling with quite a splashing, and under the cover of the noise I
suddenly came to a quick gallop, overtook the trespasser, and, grasping
his Winchester firmly with both hands, jerked it out of his grasp."

"Sure, he must have been the maddest thing that iver happened!" said
McGinnis.

"He was sore, all right. But what could he do? I had the rifle, and we
neither of us had any six-shooters. I showed him that there was no
object in my shooting him, while he would gain by shooting me, so I
proposed to hold the gun. And hold it I did. On my return I put a
notice of seizure on the poles.

"The report went through the usual way to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office. He wrote me a letter direct about the case and put
it up to me to ask the trespasser what proposition of settlement he
intended to make. I thought the town was the best place for this and
waited at the post-office for a day or two until he came in. There I
tackled him, and told him he would have to notify the Department
immediately. At this, he and his son invited me outside to fight it out.
I told them I did not intend to fight, but that if within thirty minutes
they did not make a proposition of settlement I would telegraph to the
Department and his case would become one for harsher measures.

"The postmaster set out to convince him that Uncle Sam was too big a job
for him to handle, and in twenty minutes or so back he came with an
offer which was forwarded to the Department. A year or so later the case
was settled by a Special Agent."

McGinnis added several similar stories of timber difficulties, and,
supper being over, they got ready to turn in. The headquarters was a
most comfortable house, fairly large, having been built by the previous
Ranger, who was married. It was now used by another Ranger, as well as
Rifle-Eye, being near the borders of their two districts, and having
plenty of good water and good feed near. But although it was barely
dark, Wilbur was tired enough to be glad to stretch himself on the cot
in the little room and sink to sleep amid the soughing of the wind
through the pine needles of neighboring forest giants one and two
hundred feet high.

Early the next morning, Wilbur tumbled up, went out and looked after his
horses, and came in hungry to breakfast.

"I had intended," said the Supervisor, "to go with you this morning and
show you the part of the range you are to look after. But I want to get
at Peavey Jo, lest he should decide to leave suddenly, and Rifle-Eye
will show you the way instead. I had the tent pitched three or four days
ago, when you ought to have been here. You'll find that to cover your
range takes about six hours' good riding a day. Use a different horse,
of course, each day, and remember that your horse in some ways is fully
as important as you are. You can stand a heap of things that he can't.
A man will tire out any animal that breathes."

"And what have I to do?"

"You have three trails to ride, on three successive days, so that you
will have a chance of seeing all your range, or points that will command
all your range at least twice a week. And, of course, quite a good deal
of it you will cover daily. You are to watch out for fires, and if you
see one, put it out. If you can't put it out alone, ride back to your
camp and telephone here, as soon as it is evening. Sometimes it is
better to keep working alone until you know there's some one to answer
the 'phone, sometimes it's better to get help right away. You can tell
about that when you have got to the fire and have seen what it is."

Wilbur nodded.

"That's easy enough to follow," he said.

"If a heavy rain comes, you had better ride back here, because for a few
days after a big rain a fire isn't likely to start, and there's always
lots of other stuff to be done in the forest, trail-building, and things
of that sort."

"Very well, Mr. Merritt," answered the boy.

"There are no timber sales going on in that section of the forest, so
that if you see any cutting going on, just ride up quietly and get into
conversation with the people cutting and casually find out their names.
Ask no other questions, but in the evening telephone to me."

"The telephone must be a big convenience. But," added Wilbur, "it seems
to take away the primitiveness of it, somehow."

"Wilbur," said the Supervisor seriously, "you don't want to run into the
mistake of thinking that life on a national forest is principally a
picturesque performance. It's a business that the government is running
for the benefit of the country at large. Anything that can be done to
make it efficient is tremendously important. The telephone already has
saved many a fearful night ride through bad places of the forest, has
been the means of stopping many a fire, and has saved many a life in
consequence. asked Eduard joking. "My visit, if it is worth
to you something, are you a guilty look, which I did yesterday.

I am sincerely pleased to half a day in a home where I had established
peace, and then I heard that this birthday will be celebrated.

"One can but in the end selbstisch call, 'I thought,' that you only
want to look, you've persuaded to peace. freust Why do you not even
once with friends who peace and cherish? 'said than done Here I am,
how I had made. "" Yesterday you would have found great company, today
you will find only small, "said Charlotte." You can find the Count and
the Baroness, which you even to have done. "From the middle of the
four House members, the strange, welcome man was surrounded, he
with sullen vivaciousness out, he immediately after hat and riding
crop looked," but always hangs on Unst me once I will rest and I
want wohltun!

But why I go out of my character, I would not come, and now I
distributed.

Because with those, I will not stay under one roof, and you take
in eight, they bring nothing but mischief, your system is like a
leaven, contamination of its moves.

"You looked at him begütigen, but in vain." Who me Ehstand the
attacks, "he exclaimed," Who me by word, yes indeed through all
these basic moral society undermines that it has to do with me, or if I
fail to be, I have nothing to do with him. The marriage is the beginning
and the summit of all culture. It makes the Rohen mild, and has made no
better opportunity to prove his gentleness. irresolvable they must
be, because it brings so much happiness that every single accident
on the other hand, not to be expected.

And what will you talk of unhappiness?

impatience, it is the people from time to time incurred and then he loved
unhappy to find. let the moment pass you, and you will be happy praise
that one so long, there were still there.

To disconnect there no sufficient reason. The human condition is
so high in the sufferings and joys that even that can not be
calculated, what a pair of husband are guilty themselves. There is an
infinite debt, which only eternity can be worn.

Irksome like it sometimes, which I think probably, and that is
just right.

Are we are not even married with the belief that we are often happy to
be rid of, because it is uncomfortable, than we ever a man or a woman
might be? " so vividly and said he would probably still fortgesprochen
long, if not blowing Postillon the arrival of the gentry would proclaim
that as measured by both sides at the same time in the courtyard
hereinfuhren.

As their comrades entgegeneilten house, hid the meantime, let the horse
at the Inn, and rode them irksome. bewillkommt The guests were
introduced and they rejoiced, the house, the room again to enter,
where they used to be some good day, and they experienced a long
time had not seen. maximum was pleasantly also the presence of their
friends.

The Count and the Baroness could under those tall, beautiful
figures include that one in an almost middle-aged rather than in
youth looks, because if they have something from the first flowering
abgehn would like to attract them but now with the tendency of a
firm confidence.

Again, this couple was very comfortable in the present. Your manner, the
conditions of life and to be treated, its apparent serenity and
impartiality shared immediately with a high level of decency and
the limited whole, without any sort of coercion that we would have
noticed.

This effect was moment in the company feel. The entrant who immediately
came out of the world, how even in their clothes, utensils and all
environments, could see, made sense with our friends, its rural and
secretly passionate states a kind of contrast, which however, soon
lost by old memories and current participation is mixed, and a fast,
lively conversation all linked together quickly.

It lasted not long, however, as already a segregation was experiencing.

The women retreated back to their wings and found daselbst by appropriating
some familiar and also the latest forms and blanks for early
dresses, hats and patterns began to derglichen, enough entertainment,
while the men are the new travel vans, presented with horses, and
employed like to act and began to exchange.

Only at the tables, it was back together. The dressing was done, and
also revealed the couple arrived to his advantage. Everything they wore
in itself, was new and as yet unseen, and through the use of habit
and convenience privy.

The conversation was lively and, alternately, such as in the presence
of such persons everything and nothing seems to be interested. It is
operated by the French language, waiting to be excluded from the
Mitverständnis, and sweeps with wanton ease on high and medium-sized
world out conditions. At one point the conversation was longer than
cheaply made liable, by Charlotte after a youth is asked girlfriend
and heard with some surprise that they ehstens should be divorced.
"It is unfortunate," said Charlotte, "when his absent friends ever
salvaged, a friend who you love, care believes, eh you know it, you
need to hear again that their fate is wavering, and that it was
new, and perhaps again unsichre paths of life is to enter "."

Actually, my best, "returned the Count," we ourselves are to blame if
we are in such a manner to be surprised.

We like our earthly things, and especially also ehlichen compounds like
quite durable imagine and what is the last point, it captivated us the
comedies that we always see again, to such fantasies, with the way the
world does not meet.

In the comedy, we see a marriage as the last goal of the Act more
obstacles shifted desire, and at the moment, as it is reached, the
curtain falls, and the momentary satisfaction of sounds with us
after.

In the world it is different, as is always the rear continued
playing, and if the Curtain rises again, like nothing else you like
to see nor hear them. "" It must not be so bad, "said Charlotte
smiling," because you can see that even those interested in this
theater are assigned, probably like it again play like "."

On the other hand is nothing wrong, "said Graf" A new role, one might
like to take over again, and if the world knows, so you can see probably:
even if the marriage is only this strong, eternal duration times
between movements in the world, the somewhat clumsy at it.

One of my friends, whose good humor, mostly in proposals for new
laws hervortat says: every marriage should be only five years.

It was, he said, this is a beautiful, odd, holy figure and such a
period, just enough to get to know, some children Major, is to
divide and what the best thing was to return once more.

Usually he exclaimed: "how happy would be the first time elapse!

Two, three years were at least amusing way. Then would surely one
part keen to make the relationship more time to see the complacency
would grow, the more you are to the date of termination approached.

The indifferent, and even the part would be dissatisfied by such a
demeanor begütigt and used.

You forget how to be in good company forgets the hours that the time
verfließe, and would find itself on the most pleasant surprise
when, after appointment only remarked that he had already tacitly
renewed " .

So kind and funny and it sounded so good, like Charlotte probably felt
this joke a deep moral interpretation could, so similar were their
utterances, especially around Ottilien sake, not pleasant.

She knew quite well that nothing is as dangerous a too free talk,
which has a criminal or halbstrafbaren status as an ordinary, common,
and indeed commendable bahandelt, and then, but certainly heard
everything that the bond of marriage intact.

You looked so looking after their way off the conversation, because it
could not, sorry it did that Ottilie everything was so well established,
so as not to be allowed to get up. The quietly attentive child
understood with the majordomo by sight and Wink, that everything
fell to the excellent, though a few new, clumsy servant in livery
stakes.

And so went the Count, Charlotte distracted not sensitive about this subject
continue to be heard. He, who was otherwise not used in any conversation
to be annoying, this thing weighed too much on the heart, and the
difficulty in separated from his wife to see, made him bitter against
everything covered bond of marriage, which he himself but with the
Baronesse anxiously wished.

"That friend," he said, "nor did another Act proposal: a marriage
should only be then kept for irresolvable if either or both parts
at least one part of the third would be married.

For what such a person concerned, unwidersprechlich they confess
that they married for something Essential think. Now it is also already
known, as they are in their early connections are, whether they have
characteristics that often cause more separation than bad qualities.
You have therefore mutually to inquire, we have just as well as
to married couples Unmarried care, because you did not know how the
cases may come "."

That would certainly the interest of the company very proliferate,
"said Edward;" because, in fact, now when we are married, nobody
will ask further more after our virtues or our shortcomings " .

'In such an institution, "the baroness was smiling that" our dear hosts
have been fortunate to have two stages and could be increased to
prepare for the third "." ists probably advised you, "said the Count,"
here, the death willingly done what the consistories otherwise be
reluctant to do so to maintain "." Let the dead rest, "returned
Charlotte with half serious looks." Why? "exclaimed the Count," because
in her honor can do. They were modest enough , with some years of varied
simply the best, behind them. "" If not only just, "said the
baroness with a subdued sigh," in such cases, the victim of the
best years should be!

"" Yes, "returned the Count, "you ought to despair, if not ever in the
world as less a consequence showed hoped. Children do not deliver what
they promise young people are very rare, and if they keep word,
it keeps them with the world." Charlotte what was glad that the
conversation turned to, transferees Fair: "Now we have to look anyway
soon enough accustomed to the good piece - and partly to enjoy."
"Certainly," returned the Count, "They both have very enjoyed
wonderful times.

When I look at the years zurückerinnere because you and Eduard
nicest couple in the yard were not so brilliant yet so times
hervorleuchtenden figures is now talk more.

If you both danced together, all eyes were directed at you and how
both courted by using only interlocking bespiegelten!

"" As many has changed, "said Charlotte," we can probably nice
enough to listen with humility.

"Eduards I have often blamed in quiet," said Count, "that he was not
persistent, because at the end of his wounds would probably parents
relented, and ten to gain Early Years is not a trivial matter".

"I must anehmen his" fell Baronesse admits.

"Charlotte was not entirely without blame, not entirely clean of
everything Umhersehen, and whether they like Eduards hearts and
loved him secretly for certain husband, so I was witness to how
much they tormented him sometimes, so it is easy to push the
unfortunate decision was to travel , to remove themselves from it
to wean.

"Edward nodded to the baroness and seemed grateful for their intercession."
And then I have one ", she continued," Charlotte's apology to the
application: the man who at that time to they advertised, had already
long been characterized by their tendency to was excellent and if
you knew him closer, dear certainly worthy than others like her
concede like. "" Dear friend, "returned the count something lively,"
we can only confess that he you are not completely indifferent, and
Charlotte that you had more to fear than another.

I think that's a very nice train to the women that their attachment
to any man while still continue, so there is no kind of separation
from interfering can lift. "" These are good quality, perhaps even
more men, "exclaimed the baroness;" at least you prefer to count,
I noticed that no one has power over you as a women's room, which
you previously were tilted.

Thus, I seen that on the advocacy of such tasks are more difficult to
get something auszuwirken as perhaps the girlfriend of the moment you
would have gained.

"Such an allegation should probably put up," returned the Count; "but what
Charlotte's first husband is concerned, so I could not endure him, because
he sent me a beautiful pair auseinandersprengte, a truly predestined
couple, which, once given, either five years too shy even to a second
or even third liaison needed to look "." We want to try, "said Charlotte,"
to which again, what we have failed. "" Because you have to think about
this, "said the Count" Their first marriages, "he continued, with some
vehemence," but it was actually right Weddings hated by the nature,
and unfortunately have absolutely the marriages - forgive me a livelier
expression - something Matters boobies, they spoil the delicate situation,
and it is really only at the crude security, on which at least a part
of doing something to benefit . Everything goes without saying, and it
seems to be connected only to have one so like the others now go his
way. "In that moment, did Charlotte, which once and for all this talk
would stop, by a bold use of words, it succeeded in its .
The boy admitted that they were a little dazzling and that he had to
look all he knew how.

"Then, if you make your eyes heavy and tired for the next mornin',
you're robbin' the Service of what they got you for--your eyesight,
ain't you? I ain't forcin' you, noways. I'm only showin' you what's the
square thing."

Wilbur put forward his chin obstinately, then, thinking of the kindness
he had received from the Ranger all the way through, and realizing that
he was in the right, said:

"All right, Rifle-Eye, I'll turn in."

About half an hour later, just as the old woodsman stretched himself on
his pile of boughs outside the tent, he heard the boy mutter:

"I hope I'll never have to live anywhere but here."

The following day and the next were similar in many ways to the first.
Wilbur and the Ranger rode the various trails, the boy learning the
landmarks by which he might make sure that he was going right, and
making acquaintance with the few settlers who lived in his portion of
the forest. On Sunday morning, however, the Ranger told the boy he must
leave him to his own devices.

"I've put in several days with you gettin' you started," he said, "an' I
reckon I'd better be goin' about some other business. There's a heap o'
things doin' all the time, an' as it is I'm pressed to keep up. But
I'll drop in every now an' again, an' you're allers welcome at
headquarters."

"I hate to have you go, Rifle-Eye," the boy replied, "and you certainly
have been mighty good to me. I'll try not to forget all the things
you've told me, and I'll look forward to seeing you again before long."

"I'll come first chance I can," replied the hunter. "Take care of
yourself."

"Good-by, Rifle-Eye," called the boy, "and I'll look for your coming
back." He watched the old man until he was lost to sight and then waited
until the sound of the horse's hoofs on the hillside had ceased. He
found a lump in his throat as he turned away, but he went into the tent,
and went over his reports to see if they read all right before the
Supervisor arrived. Then, thinking that it was likely his chief would
come about noon, he exerted himself trying to make up an extra good
dinner. He caught some trout, and finding some lettuce growing in the
little garden, got it ready for salad, and then mixed up the batter for
some "flapjacks," as the old hunter had shown him how. He had everything
ready to begin the cooking, and was writing letters when he heard his
guest coming up the trail, and went out to meet him.

After Wilbur had made his reports and got dinner, for both of which he
received a short commendation, the Supervisor broached the question of
the timber trespass.

"Loyle," he said, "McGinnis and I have measured up the lumber stolen.
There's about four and a half million feet. You were with us when we
first located the trespass, and I want you to come with us to the mill."

"Very well, Mr. Merritt," answered the boy.

"I don't want you to do any talking at all, unless I ask you a question.
Then answer carefully and in the fewest words you can. Don't tell me
what you think. Say what you know. I'll do all the talking that will be
necessary."

Wilbur thought to himself that the conversation probably would not be
very long, but he said nothing.

"That is," continued the other as an afterthought, "McGinnis and I. I
don't suppose he can be kept quiet."

Wilbur grinned.

"But he usually knows what he is talking about, I should think," he
hazarded.

"He does--on lumber." Then, with one of the abrupt changes of topic,
characteristic of the man, the Supervisor turned to the question of
intended improvements in that part of the forest where Wilbur was to be.
He showed himself to be aware that the lad's appointment as Guard was
not merely a temporary affair, but a part of his training to fit himself
for higher posts, and accordingly explained matters more fully than he
would otherwise have done. Reaching the close of that subject he rose to
go suddenly. He looked around the tent.

"Got everything you want?" he demanded.

"Yes, indeed, sir," the boy replied. "It's very comfortable here."

"Got a watch?"

"No, Mr. Merritt, not now."

"Why not?"

"Mine got lost in that little trouble I had with the bob-cat, and I
didn't notice it until next day."

"Saw you hadn't one the other day. Take this."

He pulled a watch out of his pocket and handed it to the boy.

"But, Mr. Merritt," began the boy, "your watch? Oh, I couldn't--"

"Got another. You'll need it." He turned and walked out of the tent.

Wilbur overtook him on the way to the corral.

"Oh, Mr. Merritt--" he began, but his chief turned sharply round on him.
The boy, for all his impulsiveness, could read a face, and he checked
himself. "Thank you very much, indeed," he ended quietly. He got out the
Supervisor's horse, and as the latter swung himself into the saddle, he
said:

"What time to-morrow, Mr. Merritt?"

"Eleven, sharp," was the reply. "So long."

Wilbur looked after him as he rode away.

"That means starting by daybreak," he said aloud. "Well, I don't think
I'm going to suffer from sleeping sickness on this job, anyway." And he
went back into the tent to finish the letter which he had started two
evenings before and never had a chance to complete.

By dawn the next morning Wilbur was on the trail. He was giving himself
more time than he needed, but he had not the slightest intention of
arriving late, neither did he wish the flanks of his horse to show that
he had been riding hard. For the boy was perfectly sure that not a
detail would escape the Supervisor's eye. Accordingly, he was able to
take the trip quietly and trotted easily into camp a quarter of an hour
ahead of time. He was heartily welcomed by McGinnis, while Merritt told
him to go in and get a snack, as they would start in a few minutes.
There was enough to make a good meal, and Wilbur was hungry after riding
since dawn, so that he had just got through when the other two men rode
up. He hastily finished his last mouthful, jumped up, and clambered into
the saddle after the Supervisor, who had not waited a moment to see if
he were ready.

Merritt set a fairly fast pace, and the trail was only intended for
single file, so that there was no conversation for an hour or more. Then
the head of the forest pulled up a little and conversed with McGinnis
briefly for a while, resuming his rapid pace as soon as they were
through. Once, and once only, did he speak to Wilbur, and that was just
as they got on the road leading to the sawmill. There he said:

"Think all you like, but don't say it."

When they reached the mill they passed the time of day with several of
the men, who seemed glad to see them, and a good deal of good-natured
banter passed between McGinnis and the men to whom he was well known.
The Supervisor sent word that he wanted to see the boss, and presently
Peavey Jo came out to meet them.

"Salut, Merritt!" he said; "I t'ink it's long time since you were here,
hey?"

The words as well as the look of the man told Wilbur his race and
nation. Evidently of French origin, possibly with a trace of Indian in
him, this burly son of generations of voyageurs looked his strength.
Wilbur had gone up one winter to northern Wisconsin and Michigan where
some of the big lumber camps were, and he knew the breed. He decided
that Merritt's advice was extremely good; he would talk just as little
as he had to.

The Supervisor wasted no time on preliminary greetings. That was not his
way.

"How much lumber did you cut last winter off ground that didn't belong
to you?" he queried shortly.

"Off land not mine?"

"You heard my question!"

"I cut him off my own land," said the millman with an injured
expression.

"Some of it."

"You scale all the logs I cut. You mark him. I sell him. All right."

"You tell it well," commented the Supervisor tersely. "But it don't go,
Jo. How much was there?"

"I tell you I cut him off my land."

Merritt pointedly took his notebook from his breastpocket.

"Liars make me tired," he announced impartially.

"You call me a liar--" began the big lumberman savagely, edging up to
the horse.

"Not yet. But I probably will before I'm through," was the unperturbed
reply.

"You say all the same that I am a liar, is it not?"

"Not yet, anyway. What does it matter? You cut four and a half million
feet, a little over."

A smile passed over the faces of the men attached to the sawmill. It was
evident that a number of them must know about the trespass, and probably
thought that Peavey Jo had been clever in getting away with it. The
mill-owner laughed.

"You t'ink I keep him in my pocket, hey?" he queried. "Four and a half
million feet is big enough to see. You have a man here, he see logs, he
mark logs, I cut them."

The Supervisor swung himself from his horse and handed the reins to
Wilbur. McGinnis did the same.

"You don't need to get down, Loyle," he said; "it will not take long to
find where the logs are."

The big lumberman stepped forward with an angry gleam in his eye.

"This my mill," he said. "You have not the right to walk it over."

"This is a National Forest," was the sharp reply, "and I'm in charge of
it. I'll go just wherever I see fit. Who'll stop me?"

"Me, Josef La Blanc--I stop you."

Just then Wilbur, glancing over the circle of men, saw standing among
them Ben, the half-witted boy who lived in the old hunter's cabin.
Seeing that he was observed, the lad sidled over to Wilbur and said, in
a low voice, questioningly:

"Plenty, plenty logs? No marked?"

"Yes," said Wilbur, wondering that he should have followed the
discussion so closely.

"I know where!"

"You do?" queried Wilbur.

Ben nodded his head a great many times, until Wilbur thought it would
fall off. In the meantime Merritt and Peavey Jo, standing a few feet
apart, had been eying each other. Presently the Supervisor stepped
forward:

"Show me those logs," he ordered.

"You better keep back, I t'ink," growled the millman.

Merritt stepped forward unconcernedly, but was met with an open-hand
push that sent him reeling backward.

"I not want to fight you," he cried; "I get a plenty fight when I want
him. You no good; can't fight."

"I'm not going to fight," said the Supervisor, "but I'm going to see
where those logs are, or were. Stand aside!"

But the big Frenchman planted himself squarely in the way.

"If you hunt for the trouble," he said, "you get him sure," he said
menacingly.

"I'm not hunting for trouble, Jo, and you know it But I'm hunting logs,
and I'll find them."

He was just about to step forward, trusting to quickness to dodge the
blow that he could see would be launched at him, when Ben, who had been
whispering to Wilbur, lurched over to the Supervisor and pulled his arm.

"Plenty, plenty logs, no mark," he said loudly; "I know where. I show
you. They are up--"

But he never finished the sentence, for the lumberman, taking one step
forward, drove his left fist square at the side of the boy's jaw,
dropping him insensible before he could give the information which
Merritt was seeking.

But unexpected as the blow had been, it was met scarcely a second later
by an equally unexpected pile-driver jolt from McGinnis.

"Ye big murdhering spalpeen," burst out the angry Irishman, "ye think
it's a fine thing to try and shtop a man that's trying to do his duty,
and think yerself a fightin' man, bekass ye can lick a man that doesn't
want to fight. This isn't any Forest Service scrap, mind ye, and I'm
saying nothing about logs. I'm talking about your hittin' a weak,
half-crazed boy. Ye're a liar and a coward, Peavey Jo, and a dirty one
at that."

"Keep quiet, McGinnis," said Merritt, who was stooping down over the
insensible lad, "we'll put him in jail for this."

"Ye will, maybe," snorted the Irishman, "afther he laves the hospital."

"You make dis your bizness, hey?" queried the mill-owner.

"I'll make it your funeral, ye sneaking half-breed Canuck! How about
it, boys," he added turning to the crowd, "do I get fair play?"

A chorus of "Sure," "'Twas a dirty trick," "The kid didn't know no
better," and similar cries showed how the sentiment of the crowd lay. In
a moment McGinnis and the Frenchman had stripped their coats and faced
each other. The mill-owner was by far the bigger man, and the play of
his shoulders showed that his fearful strength was not muscle bound, but
he stood ponderously; on the other hand, the Irishman, who, while tall,
was not nearly as heavy, only seemed to touch the ground, his step was
so light and springy.

The Frenchman rushed, swinging as he did so. A less sure fighter would
have given ground, thereby weakening the force of his return blow should
he have a chance to give it. McGinnis sidestepped and cross-jolted with
his left. It was a wicked punch, but Peavey Jo partly stopped it. As it
was, it jarred him to his heels.

"Lam a kid, will ye, ye bloated pea-jammer," grinned McGinnis, who was
beaming with delight now that the fight was really started.

"You fight, no talk," growled the other, recovering warily, for the one
interchange had showed him that the Irishman was not to be despised.

"I can sing a tune," said McGinnis, "and then lick you with one hand--"
He stopped as Peavey Jo bored in, fighting hard and straight and showing
his mettle. There was no doubt of it, the Frenchman was the stronger and
the better man. Also, the Baronesse let him feel that Ottilie always
remain a poor girl. With a rich home used to be said, can anyone
help, because it would be even with the greatest assets a conscience
to make a substantial sum of those to escape to the surrounding
grade, a perfect right to a property seem to have. And certainly, it is
wonderful that the man the great privilege of following his death
still has its effects on schedule, very rarely used in favor of
his favorites and, as it seems, out of respect to come only those
favors, which he would hold his assets when he himself had no desire.

His feeling put him on the journey Ottilien completely equal. A good
intake increased its hopes.

Although he was against Ottilien is not quite as open as usual,
but she was also grown, educated and, if you will, in general
messages, as he knew they had.

Vertraulich you let him take some insight, especially on his subject
concerned.

But his purpose when he wanted to get closer, it always gave him a certain
inner Scheubeck back. sett but Charlotte gave him this opportunity
by investing in the presence Ottilien said to him: "Now, you have
everything in my circles is growing up so pretty examined how to find
because Ottilien • You must be comfortable in their presence pronounce.
"The Gehülfe described here with a lot of insight and calm expression
as he Ottilien in conduct intention of a freer, a more convenient
communication, a higher vision in the worldly things , which is more in
their actions than their words hit, much to their advantage can change,
but that he believe that there could be much to their benefit if
they are to some time in the boarding house back in order in a
certain sequence thoroughly and for ever zuzueignen is what the
world only piecemeal and rather to the confusion as to satisfy, yes
sometimes only deliver about allzuspät.

He would also not be widely; Ottilie know best themselves from what
they were related Lehrvorträgen been ripped out.

Ottilie could not deny, but they could not admit what she felt at
these words because they hardly knew themselves to be interpreted.

It seemed to her in the world is nothing more incoherent, if they
thought the beloved husband, and she could not understand as without
him anything might be linked.

Charlotte replied to the request with the smart convenience.

She said that both she Ottilie as a return long after the pension would
have liked. At this time it was only the presence of such a
dear friend and assistant have been indispensable but wanted them in
the sequence is not a hindrance, when it would Ottilien desire to
revert to so long to return until they ended and the fraction of
fully zugeeignet Interrupted.

The Gehülfe took joyfully to accept this; Ottilie had no objection
to say whether it is equal before the thought shuddered.

Charlotte, however, thought to gain time, they hoped, Eduard
should only be lucky to find father and einfinden, then, she was convinced
would give everything and also for Ottilien to one or the other
way should be ensured.

After a substantial discussion, through which all participants
reflect that maintains a certain way arrest the general embarrassment
of a similar view.

It was in the hall up and down the Gehülfe scrolls in some books
and finally came to the Folio Volume of Lucian times still remained
was her lie.

When he saw that it contained only monkeys, he suggested to him
again.

This incident, however, may cause a conversation to have, what we
are the traces found in Ottilien diary.

As it is only on the heart can bring the nasty monkeys manner so
carefully!

It demeans itself when it sees animals only as a man but is really
malicious, if one follows the stimuli known people under the
mask to see. It is certainly a degree of eccentric about to get happy
with cartoons and caricatures must. Gehülfe thank our good ichs that
I am not with the natural history has been plagued am, I could with the
worms and beetles never friends. This time he confessed to me
that he just go. "From Nature," he said, "we should know nothing but
what surrounds us immediately alive.

With the trees, which bloom around us, green, bear fruit, with each
tree, which we pass, with each blade of grass on we hinwandeln, we
have a real relationship, they are our real Kompatrioten.

The birds, the branches on our back and resist jumping to sing in
our gazebo, belong to us, they speak to us from youth, and we learn
their language.

We wondered whether each alien from its surroundings torn creature
a certain fearful makes impression on us, just by habit is dulled.
It has now a colorful, noisy life to monkeys, parrots and Mohren to
endure.

"Sometimes when me a curious desire for such things adventurous anwandelte,
I envy the passengers, such miracles with other miracles in life,
everyday connection provides. But he is a different person. It turns no
one away under the palms, and the attitudes certainly are changing
in a country where elephants and tigers at home.

Only the venerable naturalist is valuable to us the strange, strange,
with its locality, with all the neighborhood in which every individual
elements to describe and depict white.

How happy I would just like to hear once Humboldt tell!

A kind Cabinet may occur as we an Egyptian tomb, where the different
animal - and plant balsamiert umherstehen idols. One priest caste
behooves it seems, is so mysterious in the half holds, but in the
general education should not influence the like, to be less than something
more dignified, and thus easily looks squeezed.

A teacher of the feeling of a single good deed, in a single good
poem can bring, makes more than one, our whole series of minor
nature and shape of the formations in name survived, because the
whole result of it is what anyway we can know that the finest and
most Menschengebild only the likeness of the deity in it.

The individual remains the freedom with which to employ, what
attracts him what makes him happy, what it seemed useful, but the
actual study of mankind is man.

There are few people who deal with the company Nächstvergangenen to
know. Either the current keeps us with violence itself, or we lose
ourselves in the past and looking for the lost completely, as it will
only be possible, again evoking and manufacture.

Even in the large and wealthy families, their ancestors are guilty
of much, cares so to go, that one of the grandfather of the father
more than does.

Such considerations was our Gehülfe asked, as he at one of the beautiful
days in which the outgoing winter to spring to lie maintains, through
the great, old castle garden was gone and the large avenues of trees,
the regular equipment, the father of Eduards herschrieben, had
admired.

They were splendidly well in the sense of the person they planted,
and now that they recognized and should be enjoyed, no one spoke of
them, we visited them and had little love and effort against a
side out into the open expanse and addressed.

He made his return at the Charlotten comment that they do not
adversely started.

"By making our lives fortzieht," returned she, "we believe in ourselves
to act, our activity, our amusements to choose, but certainly when we
see it exactly, it is only the canvas, the inclinations of the
time we are forced to run with. "" Certainly, "said the Gehülfe,"
and those who resist the currents of its environments?

The time away and moves into their attitudes, opinions, prejudices
and hobbies.

If the youth of a son just in the time of the inverted, so you can rest
assured that he and his father have nothing in common.

If those who lived in a period where you had like, some things
zuzueignen, to secure this property, restrict, and in the einzuengen
isolated from the world to benefit from its mount, it is then to
expand the search, communicate, disseminate and Locked open "."
whole time, "returned Charlotte," this same father and son, whom
you describe.

Of those states, because every little town walls and moats have had since
you every Edelhof still built in a swamp and the lowest Locks only
by a drawbridge were available, of which we can hardly make a word.

Even larger cities now bear their walls from the trenches even
princely castles are filled, the cities are only large patches, and
if you travel to the view, one should believe that the general peace
was secured and the golden era of the door.

No one believes in a comfortable garden, which is not of a free country
looks similar, in art, nothing is forced to remember, we want a completely
free and absolutely breath.

You probably have an idea, my friend, that one from that in another, in
the previous condition can return? "" Why not? "Exclaimed the Gehülfe,"
each state has its burden, limited both as to the losgebundene. The
latter abundance continues and leads to wastage.

Let us stay with your example, which is striking enough. Once
the deficiency occurs, immediately self-restraint is the play.
people to their land are forced to use lead again walls around their
gardens and thus their products are safe. This is after a new view of
things. This Useful gets the upper hand again, and even possession of
the large end says it all as well use them. Believe me, it is
possible that Her son, all the neglected parks and back behind the
walls and under severe high Linden retires his grandfather. "Charlotte
was in a quiet happy to have a son proclaimed to hear, and forgave
the Gehülfe therefore somewhat unfriendly prophecy, as their dereinst
love, beautiful park could be made.

They returned, therefore, very friendly: "We are both not yet old
enough to experience several contradictions like to have when you are
alone in the back over his early youth, remembers what you complain of
older people heard , countries and cities to look into the record, so
would like to stay against his remark nothing. but if you have
such a natural way to do so, you father and son, parents and children
are not in compliance can bring?

You gave me a friendly boys prophesied, would just as with his father in
contradiction? destroying what his parents have built, rather than to
complete it and collect, if he continues in the same sense? "" There
is probably also a reasonable means, "returned the Gehülfe, "but
by the people rarely applied.

The father raise his son to co-owner, he let him mitbauen, plants and
allow him, like himself, a harmless arbitrariness.

An activity can be seen in the other weaving, no on the other
anstückeln.

A young branch connects to an ancient tribe and even slightly
happy, not to the adult branch is more words.

"It pleased the Gehülfe at the moment, because to say he is forced to
saw something happens Charlotten Pleasant said, and their favor
afresh to have it fixed.

Already he was too long away from home, but he could not return to
decide rather than completely convinced he needed the approaching
era of Charlotte childbirth can only go by before it because Ottilien
any decision could hope.

He is therefore in the circumstances and returned with these prospects
and hopes to head back again. Charlotten approaching birth approached.
They stayed in their rooms. The women who gathered around them were their
cohesive society. Ottilie's house being worried by it hardly could
remember what they did.

They had quite showed they wanted for Charlotte, for the child, for
Edward was still also on the service to try, but they did not , as
it would be possible.

Nothing could complete obscurity before they save, as that every day they
did their duty. A son was born happy, and the women are all insured,
unless the whole body good father. Only it was Ottilie Quiet does not
find the woman as she wished luck to the child and the warm welcome.
Even in the prisons to the marriage of their daughter was Charlotten
the absence of her husband was very palpable, should now also the
father on the birth of the Son does not currently be he should be
named not determine where you would call him in future.

The first of all friends who were congratulating see, was meantime, his
scouts had issued to capitalize on this event soon message. He found a
and very comfortable. Hardly that his triumph in the presence Ottilien
hid, so he spoke out against Charlotten loud and was the man who all worry
about lift and all the current obstacles beiseitezubringen. Baptism
should not be long postponed. The old clergyman , with one foot already
in the grave, by his blessing to the past with the future of
networking; Otto the child should read, it was no other name than
the name of the Father and of the friend.

It took the intrusiveness of this man determined to hunderterlei worrying
the opposition speeches, procrastination, stagnation, Better - or other
knowledge, which oscillation, My, Um - my recovery and to eliminate,
as usual on such occasions from a higher gravity again new ones and by
all conditions skåne will always be the case occurs, some of them
injured. All writing and reporting Gevatterbriefe over intermediary,
they should equal out, because he was himself a keen höchlich, a
happiness, which he for the family so much thought, even the rest
of mißwollenden and sometimes mißredenden world map.

And of course, the passionate past incidents did not escape the audience
that already in the conviction stands, everything is done, only to be
done so that it had something to talk about. The celebration Taufaktes
should be worthy of, but limited and short. We came together, Ottilie and
intermediaries should the child as Taufzeugen hold. The old clergyman,
supported by the church servant, came up with slow steps. The prayer
was performed, Ottilien on the child's arms laid, and when they tilt to
the same heruntersah, they are not a little shocked to open his
eyes, because they believed in their own to see such a coincidence
would have surprised everyone.

Meanwhile, the first child received stutzte equally by in the same
education such a striking resemblance, with the captain, saw him like
never before else was. The weakness of the good old Geistichen had
prevented him, the Taufhandlung with more than the ordinary liturgy to
accompany. Meanwhile, however, fully of the objects, thought of his
official duties early and had about the nature, immediately, in any case
to think about how he is now talking about how he would say. This time,
he was able to be less reticent when it is only a small party of
loud had friends who surrounded him. He started, therefore, toward the
end of the act with ease in the body of the clergy to meet in a speech
kicking his godfather duties and to express hopes and even more so to use
it, as he applauded Charlotten satisfied in their face to see thought.
The fact that the good old man like that would have escaped the
sprightly speaker, much less the thought that he produce a greater
evil was on the way, because after the relationship of each to present
Baby Reproduction with written text and Ottilien it fairly put to the
test had, so he turned against the last man with these words: "and
you, my worthy Jeseniky can now say with Simeon, 'Lord, let your servant
go in peace; because my eyes have seen salvation in this House '.

"Now he was in the course, quite brilliantly to close, but he soon
noticed that the old man, whom he hinhielt the child, although only
against the same seemed to lean, but soon afterwards zurücksank. The
case barely held, he was placed in an armchair, and you had it,
despite all of the current appeal Beihülfe dead. So just birth and
death, the coffin and the cradle next to see and think, not merely
with the imagination, but with sight of these enormous contrasts
together, for the bystanders was a difficult task, depending
surprisingly it was submitted.

Ottilie alone saw the Eingeschlummerten, which still maintains its
friendly, engaging mien had kept, with a kind of envy.

The life of her soul was killed , why should the body still be
obtained?

Did it in this way, sometimes even the unpleasant events of the day
to the consideration of the transience, of Parting, of losing, so
were their nightly appearances on the other hand, miraculously given
to the solace, the life of her lover insured and their own fortified
and lively.

If they are laid to rest at night and the sweet feeling between
sleep and wakefulness, floated, it seemed as if they are in a very
bright, but mild lit room hineinblickte.

In this, it looked quite Eduards well, not dressed, how they view him
otherwise, but in the warlike suit, each in a different position, but
completely natural and nothing was fantastic in itself had
standing, walking, lying, riding.

The figure, down to the smallest ausgemalt, moved to her willingly, but
they did to the least, but they wanted the imagination or effort.

They worked busily for a few moments, girdling the infected trees,
and also girdling some small useless trees near by, because, as the
hunter explained, when the beetles flew out seeking a new tree to
destroy, they would prefer one that was dying, as a tree from which
all the bark has been cut away all round always does, and then these
trees could be burned.

"Have you noticed wheel tracks around here?" asked the hunter
thoughtfully.

"I did think so," said Wilbur, "near that dead tree, but I s'posed, of
course, I was wrong. What would a wagon be doing up here?"

Suddenly the Ranger dropped his ax as though he had been stung. He
turned to the boy, his eyes flashing.

"Boy!" he said, "did you see the stump of that dead tree!"

"I didn't notice," said Wilbur wonderingly.

The old woodsman picked up his ax, and led the way back to the dead
tree.

Wilbur looked at the base of the tree.

"It isn't a windfall," he said; "it's been cut."

"Where's the stump?" asked Rifle-Eye.

The boy looked within a radius of a few feet, then looked up at the
hunter.

"Where's the stump?" repeated the old man.

Wilbur turned back and searched for five minutes. Not a stump could he
find that fitted the tree. None had been cut for some time, and none at
all of so small a girth.

"I can't find any," he admitted shamefacedly, afraid that the Ranger
would prove him wrong in some way.

"Nor can I," said Rifle-Eye. "Well?"

"Then I guess there isn't one there," said the boy.

"How did the tree get there?"

Wilbur looked at him, reflecting the question that he saw in the other's
eyes.

"It couldn't get there of itself," he said, "and it was cut, too."

"An' wheel-tracks?"

"There were tracks," said the boy, "I'm sure of that."

"When a cut tree is found lyin' all by itself," said the Ranger, "with
wagon tracks leadin' up to it an' away from it, it don't need a city
detective to find out that some one dropped it there. An' when that dead
tree is full of bark-beetle, an' there ain't none in the forest, that
sure looks suspicious. An' when you find two of 'em jest the same way,
with beetle in both, an' wheel-tracks near both, ye don't have to have a
dog's nose to scent somethin's doin' that ain't over nice."

"But who," said Wilbur indignantly, "would do a trick like that?"

"The man that drove that wagon," said the old hunter. "I reckon, son,
you an' me'll do a little trailin' an' see where those wheels lead us."

They left the place where the tree was lying and followed the faint mark
of the wheels. In a few minutes they crossed the line of the
Supervisor's inspection and he called to them.

"Hi, Rifle-Eye," he said, "you're away off the line."

"I know," said the old Ranger, "but I've got a plan of my own."

Merritt shrugged his shoulders, but he knew that Rifle-Eye never wasted
his time, and he said no more. The old hunter and the boy walked on
nearly a quarter of a mile, and there they found the tracks running
beside a tiny gully, and a little distance down this, just as it had
been thrown, was another of these small trees, equally filled with
beetle.

"I don't think we'll find any stump to this one, either," said Wilbur
gleefully, for he saw that they were on the right track.

"You will not," replied the other sternly. After they had girdled the
infected trees again the Ranger shouldered his ax and, abandoning the
tracks of the wheels, started straight for headquarters.

At supper all sorts of conjectures were expressed as to the cause of the
pest, its extent, and similar matters, but Rifle-Eye said nothing.
Wilbur was so full of the news that he was hardly able to eat anything
for the information he was just bursting to give. But he kept it in.
Finally, when the men had all finished and pipes were lighted, the old
Ranger spoke, in his slow, drawling way, and every one stopped to
listen.

"There's five of ye," he said, "that's found beetle, isn't there?"

"Yes," answered the Supervisor, "five."

"And I venture to bet," he continued, "that you found a dead tree lyin'
in the middle of the infected patch!"

"Yes," said several voices, "we did."

"An' you didn't find much beetle except just round that one tree?"

"Not a bit," said one or two. "What about it?"

"There's a kind o' disease called Cholera," began Rifle-Eye in a
conversational tone, "that drifts around a city in a queer sort o' way.
It never hits two places at the same time, but if it goes up a street,
it sort o' picks one side, an' stops at one place for a while then goes
travelin' on. It acts jest as if a man was walkin' around, an' he was
the cholera spirit himself."

"Well?" queried the Supervisor sharply.

The old Ranger smiled tolerantly at his impatience.

"Wa'al," he said, "I ain't believin' or disbelievin' the yarn. But I
ain't believin' any such perambulatin' spirit for a bark-beetle.
Especially when I finds wagon tracks leading to each place where the
trouble is."

"What do you mean, Rifle-Eye?" asked Merritt. "Give it to us straight."

"I mean," he said, "that I ain't never heard of spirits needin' wagons
to get around in. An' when I find dead trees containin' bark-beetles
planted promiscuous where they'll do most good, I'm aimin' to draw a
bead on the owner o' that wagon. An' I'll ask another thing. Did any o'
you find the stumps of them infected trees?"

There was a long pause, and then McGinnis, always the first to see,
laughed out loud ruefully.

"'Tis a black sorrow to me," he said, "that I didn't let Ben welt him
wid the ax the other day. Somebody else will have to do it now."

"You mean," said the Supervisor, flaming, "that those trees were
deliberately brought here to infect the forest, trees full of beetles?"

"Sure, 'tis as plain as the nose on your face," said McGinnis. "An' it's
dubs we were not to see it ourselves."

"And it was--?"

"The bucko pea-jammer that I gave a lickin' to in the spring, for sure,"
said McGinnis. "Peavey Jo, of course, who else?"


[Illustration: WILBUR'S OWN BRIDGE.

Light structure made by the boy over stream just below his camp.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: WHERE THE SUPERVISOR STAYED.

The Ranger's cabin where the men gathered to fight the invasion of the
bark beetle.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


CHAPTER X

A FOURTH OF JULY PERIL


Wilbur stayed but a few days at headquarters, the Supervisor and
Rifle-Eye having succeeded in trailing the wagon that had deposited the
trees from the point of its entrance into the forest to the place it
went out, by this means ensuring the discovery of all the spots where
diseased trees had been placed. One of them was in Wilbur's section of
the forest, and he was required to go weekly and examine all the trees
in the vicinity of the infected spot to make sure that the danger was
over. But, thanks to Rifle-Eye's discovery, the threatened pest was
speedily held down to narrow limits.

This added not a little to the lad's riding, for the place where Peavey
Jo had deposited the infected tree in his particular part of the forest
was a long way from the trail to the several lookout points to which he
went daily to watch for fires. Fortunately, having built the little
bridge across the canyon, and thus on one of the days of the week
having shortened his ride, he was able to use the rest of the day
looking after bark-beetles. But it made a very full week. He could not
neglect any part of these rides, for June was drawing to an end and
there had been no rain for weeks.

One night, returning from a hard day, on which he had not only ridden
his fire patrol, but had also spent a couple of hours rolling big rocks
into a creek to keep it from washing out a trail should a freshet come,
he found a large party of people at his camp. There was an ex-professor
of social science of the old régime, his wife and little daughter, a
guide, and a lavish outfit. Although the gate of Wilbur's corral was
padlocked and had "Property of the U. S. Forest Service" painted on it,
the professor had ordered the guide to smash the gate and let the
animals in.

Wilbur was angry, and took no pains to conceal it.

"Who turned those horses into my corral?" he demanded.

The professor, who wore gold-rimmed eyeglasses above a very dirty and
tired face, replied:

"I am in charge of this party, and it was done at my orders."

"By what right do you steal my pasture?" asked the boy hotly.

"I understood," said the professor loftily, "that it was the custom of
the West to be hospitable. But you are probably too young to know. Your
parents live here?"

"No," replied the lad. "I am a Forest Guard, and in charge of this
station. You will have to camp elsewhere."

At these last words the flap of the tent was parted and a woman came
out, the professor's wife, in fact. She looked very tired and much
troubled.

"What is this?" she asked querulously. "Have we got to start again
to-night?"

Wilbur took off his hat.

"I beg your pardon," he said, "I did not know there were ladies in the
party." He turned to the professor. "I suppose if it will bother them
I'll have to let you stay. But if it hadn't been for that I'd have
turned every beast you've got out into the forest and let them rustle
for themselves."

"Yes, you would!" said the guide. "An' what would I have had to say?"

"Nothing," said Wilbur, "except that I'd have you arrested for touching
U. S. property." He turned to the professor: "How did you get here?" he
said.

"Up that road," said the older man, pointing to the southwest.

"And why didn't you camp a couple of miles down? There's much better
ground down there."

"The guide said there was no place at all, and he didn't know anything
about this camp, either, and we thought we would have to go on all
night."

Wilbur snorted.

"Guide!" he said contemptuously. "Acts more like a stable hand!"

"Well," said the professor testily, "if there's been any damage done you
can tell your superiors to send me a bill and I'll take the matter up in
Washington. In the meantime, we will stay here, and if I like it here, I
will stay a week or two."

"Not much, you won't," said Wilbur, "at least you won't have any horses
in the corral after daybreak to-morrow morning. I'll let them have one
good feed, anyhow, and if they're traveling with a thing like that to
look after them,"--he pointed to the "guide,"--"they'll need a rest. But
out they go to-morrow."

"We will see to-morrow," said the camper.

"In the meantime, I see a string of trout hanging there. Are they
fresh?"

"I caught them early this morning," answered Wilbur, "before I began my
day's work."

The professor took out a roll of bills.

"How much do you want for them!" he asked.

"They are not for sale," the boy replied.

"Oh, but I must have them," the other persisted. "I had quite made up my
mind to have those for supper to-night."

"And I suppose, if I hadn't come home when I did," said Wilbur, "you
would have stolen those, too!"

"I would have recompensed you adequately," the former college official
replied. "And you have no right to use the word 'stolen.' I shall report
you for impertinence."

By this time Wilbur was almost too angry to talk, and, thinking it
better not to say too much, he turned on his heel and went to his own
tent. Before going down to the corral with Kit, however, he took the
precaution of carrying the string of fish with him, for he realized that
although the professor would not for the world have taken them without
paying, he would not hesitate to appropriate them in his absence. He
cooked his trout with a distinct delight in the thought that the
intruders had nothing except canned goods.

In the morning Wilbur was up and had breakfast over before the other
camp was stirring. As soon as the "guide" appeared Wilbur walked over to
him.

"I've given you a chance to look after your animals," he said, "before
turning them out. You take them out in ten minutes or I'll turn them
loose."

"Aw, go on," said the other, "I've got to rustle grub. You haven't got
the nerve to monkey with our horses."

Promptly at the end of the ten minutes Wilbur went over to the "guide"
again.

"Out they go," he said.

But the other paid no attention. Wilbur went down to the corral, the
gate of which he had fixed early that morning, caught his own two
mounts, and tied them. Then he opened the gate of the corral and drove
the other eight horses to the gate. In a moment he heard a wild shout
and saw the "guide" coming down the trail in hot haste. He reached the
corral in time to head off the first of his horses which was just coming
through. Wilbur had no special desire to cause the animals to stray,
and was only too well satisfied to help the "guide" catch them and tie
them up to trees about the camp. By this time it was long after the hour
that the boy usually began his patrol, but he waited to see the party
start. As they were packing he noticed a lot of sticks that looked like
rockets.

"What are those?" he asked. "If they're heavy, you're putting that pack
on all wrong."

"These ain't got no weight," said the "guide"; "that's just some
fireworks for the Fourth. We've got a bunch of them along for the little
girl. She's crazy about fireworks."

Wilbur said no more, but waited until the professor came out. Then he
walked up to him.

"I understand," he said, "that you have some fireworks for the Fourth."

The man addressed made no reply, but walked along as though he had not
heard.

"I give you fair warning," said Wilbur, "that you can't set those off in
this forest, Independence Day or no Independence Day."

"We shan't ask your permission," said the old pedant loftily. "In fact,
some will be set off this evening, and some to-morrow, wherever we may
be."

"But don't you understand," the boy said, "that you're putting the
forest in danger, in awful danger of fire? And if a big forest fire
starts, you are just as likely to suffer as any one else. You might
cause a loss of millions of dollars for the sake of a few rockets."

"The man that sold me them," said the other, "said they were harmless,
and he ought to know."

"All right," said Wilbur. "I've been told off to protect this forest
from danger of fire, and if there's any greater danger around than a
bunch like yours I haven't seen it. I reckon I'll camp on your trail
till you're out of my end of the forest, and then I'll pass the word
along and see that there's some one with you to keep you from making
fools of yourselves."

He turned on his heel and commenced to make up a pack for his heavier
horse, intending to ride Kit. He then went to the telephone and, finding
no one at headquarters, called up the old hunter's cabin. The Ranger had
a 'phone put in for Ben, who had learned how to use it, and by good
fortune the half-witted lad knew where to find Rifle-Eye. He explained
to Ben how matters stood, and asked him to get word to the Ranger if
possible. Then Wilbur went back to the party and gave them a hand to
get started.

Although he had been made very angry, Wilbur could see no gain in
sulking and he spent the day trying to establish a friendly relation
with the professor, so that, as he expressed it afterwards, "he could
jolly him out of the fireworks idea." But while this scholastic visitor
was willing to talk about subjects in connection with the government,
and was quite well-informed on reclamation projects, Wilbur found the
professor as stubborn as a mule, and every time he tried to bring the
conversation round to forest fires he would be snubbed promptly.

That evening Wilbur led the party to a camping place where, he reasoned,
there would be little likelihood of fire trouble, as it was a very open
stand and all the brush on it had been piled and burned in the spring.
But the lad was at his wits' end what further to do. He could not seize
and carry off all the fireworks, and even if he were able to do so, he
couldn't see that he had any right to. It was a great relief to the boy
when he heard a horse on the trail and the old Ranger cantered up.

"Oh, Rifle-Eye," he said, "I'm so glad you've come. Tell me what to
do," and the boy recounted his difficulty with the party from first to
last.

The old woodsman listened attentively, and then said:

"I reckon, son, we'll stroll over and sorter see just how the land lies.
There's a lot of things can be done with a mule by talkin' to him,
although there is some that ain't wholly convinced by a stick of
dynamite. We'll see which-all these here are."

"I think they're the dynamite kind," the boy replied.

"Well, we'll see," the Ranger repeated. He stepped in his loose-jointed
way to where the party was sitting around the campfire. Then, looking
straight at the man of the party, he said:

"You're a professor?"

The remark admitted of no reply but:

"I was for twenty years."

"And what did you profess?"

At this the camper rose to his feet, finding it uncomfortable to sit and
look up at the tall, gaunt mountaineer. He replied testily that it
wasn't anything to do with Rifle-Eye what chair he had held or in what
college, and he'd trouble him to go about his business.

Rifle-Eye heard him patiently to the end, and then asked again, without
any change of voice:

"And what did you profess?"

Once again the reputed educator expressed himself as to the Ranger's
interference and declared that he had been more annoyed since coming
into the forest than if he had stayed out of it. He worked himself up
into a towering rage. Presently Rifle-Eye replied quietly:

"You refuse to tell?"

"I do," snapped the professor.

"Is it because you are ashamed of what you taught, or of where you
taught it?" the Ranger asked.

This was touching the stranger in a tender place. He was proud of his
college and of his hobby, and he retorted immediately:

"Ashamed? Certainly not. I was Professor of Social Economy in Blurtville
University."

"And what do you call Social Economy?" asked Rifle-Eye.

The educator fell into the trap thus laid out for him and launched into
a vigorous description of his own peculiar personal views toward
securing a better understanding of the rights of the poor and of modern
plans for ensuring better conditions of life, until he painted a picture
of his science and his own aims which was most admirable. When he drew
breath, he seemed quite pleased with himself.

The Ranger thought a minute.

"An' under which of these departments," he said, "would you put breakin'
into this young fellow's corral, and havin' your eight horses eatin' up
feed which will hardly be enough for his two when the dry weather
comes?"

"That's another matter entirely," replied the professor, becoming angry
as soon as he was criticised.

"Yes, it's another matter," said Rifle-Eye. "It's doin' instead of
talkin'. I reckon you're one o' the talkin' kind, so deafened by the
sound o' your own splutterin' that you can't hear any one else. It's a
pity, too, that you don't learn somethin' yourself before you set others
to learnin'."

"Are you trying to teach me?" snapped the traveler.

The old Ranger leaned his arm on the barrel of his rifle, which,
according to his invariable custom, he was carrying with him, a habit
from old hunting days, and looking straight at the professor, said:

"I ain't no great shakes on Social Economy, as you call it, and I ain't
been to college. But I c'n see right enough that there's no real meanin'
to you in all you know about the rich an' the poor when you'll go an'
rob a lad o' the pasture he'll need for his horses; an' you're only
actin' hypocrite in lecturin' about promotin' good feelin's in society
when you're busy provokin' bad feelin' yourself. An' when you're harpin'
on the deep canyon that lies between Knowledge an' Ignorance, it don't
pay to forget that Politeness is a mighty easy bridge to rear, an' one
that's always safe. You may profess well enough, Mister Professor, but
you're a pretty ornery example o' practisin'."

"But it's none of your business--" interrupted the stranger angrily.

Rifle-Eye with a gesture stopped him.

"It's just as much my business to talk to you," he said, "as it'd be
yours to talk to me. In fact it's more. You c'n talk in your lecture
room, an' I'll talk here. Perhaps it ain't altogether your fault; it's
just that you don't know any better. You're just a plumb ignorant
critter out here, Mister Professor, an' by rights you oughtn't to be
around loose.

"An' you tried to threaten a boy here who was doin' his duty by sayin'
that you'd write to Washington. What for? Are you so proud o' thievin'
an' bullyin' that you want every one to know, or do you want to tell
only a part o' the story so as you'll look all right an' the other
fellow all wrong. That breed o' Social Economy don't go, not out here.
We calls it lyin', an' pretty mean lyin' at that."

He broke off suddenly and looked down with a smile.

"Well, Pussy," he said, "that's right. You come an' back me up," and
reaching out his brown gnarled hand he drew to his side the little girl
who had come trustingly forward to him as all children did, and now had
slipped her little hand into his.

"An' then there's this question o' fire," he continued. "Haven't you got
some fireworks for the Fourth, Pussy?" he said, looking down at his
little companion.

"Oh, yeth," she lisped, "pin-wheelth, and crackerth, and thnaketh, and
heapth of thingth."

"What a time we'll have," he said. "Shall we look at them now?"

"Oh, yeth," the little girl replied, and ran across to her father, "can
we thee them now?"

"No, not now," the father replied.

The old Ranger called the "guide" by name.

"Miguel," he said, "the fireworks are wanted to-night. Bring 'em to me."

The professor protested, but a glance at the sinewy frame of the
mountaineer decided Miguel, and he brought several packages. In order to
please the little girl, Rifle-Eye lent her his huge pocket-knife and let
her open the packages, sharing the surprises with her. Some of them he
put aside, especially the rockets, but by far the larger number he let
the child make up into a pile.

"Will you give me your word you won't set off these?" queried the
mountaineer, pointing to the smaller pile of dangerous explosives with
his foot.

"I'll say nothing," said the professor.

Without another word the Ranger stooped down, picked them up in one big
armful, and disappeared beyond the circle of the light of the campfire
into the darkness. He reappeared in a few minutes.

"I'm afeard," he said, "your fireworks may be a little wet. I tied 'em
in a bundle, fastened a stone to 'em, an' then dropped 'em in that
little lake. You can't do any harm with those you've got now." He waited
a moment. "You can get those rockets," he said, "any time you have a
mind to. That lake dries up about the middle of September."

"By what right--" began the professor.

"I plumb forget what sub-section you called that partickler right just
now," Rifle-Eye replied, "but out here we calls it fool-hobblin'. You're
off your range, Mister Professor, an' the change o' feed has got you
locoed mighty bad. I reckon you'd better trot back to your own pastures
in the East, an' stay there till you know a little more."

"What is your name and address?" blustered the professor; "I'll have the
law invoked for this."

"There's few in the Rockies as don't know old Rifle-Eye Bill," the
Ranger replied, "an' my address is wherever I c'n find some good to be
done. Any one c'n find me when I'm wanted, an' I'm ready any time you
say. Now, you're goin' to celebrate the Fourth to-morrow, to show how
fond you are o' good government. You c'n add to your lectures on Social
Economy one rule you don't know any thin' about. It's a Western rule,
this one, an' it's just that no man that can't govern himself can govern
anythin' else."

He turned on his heel, ignoring the reply shouted after him, and
followed by Wilbur, mounted and rode away up the trail.

"I've got to get right back," said the Ranger; "we're goin' to start
workin' out a special sale of poles."

"Telegraph poles?" queried Wilbur.

"Yes."

"When you come to think of it," said the boy, "there must be quite a lot
of poles all over the country."

"Merritt said he reckoned there was about sixteen million poles now in
use, an' three and a half million poles are needed every year just for
telegraph and telephone purposes alone."

"When you think," said Wilbur, "that every telegraph and telephone pole
means a whole tree, there's some forest been cut down, hasn't there?"

"How many poles do you s'pose are used in a mile?"

"About forty, I heard at school," the boy replied, "and it takes an
army of men working all the year round just puttin' in poles."

The old hunter struck a match and put a light to his pipe.

"More forest destruction," said the boy mischievously, "I should think,
Rifle-Eye, you'd be ashamed to waste wood by burning it up in the form
of matches."

"Go on talkin'," said Rifle-Eye, "you like tellin' me these things you
picked up at the Ranger School. Can you tell how much timber is used, or
how many matches are lighted an' thrown away?"

"Three million matches a minute, every minute of the twenty-four hours,"
said Wilbur immediately. "That is," he added after a moment's
calculation, "nearly four and a half billion a day. And then only the
very best portion of the finest wood can be used, and, as I hear, the
big match factories turn out huge quantities of other stuff, like doors
and window sashes, in order to use up the wood which is not of the very
finest quality, such as is needed for matches."

"How do they saw 'em so thin, I wonder?" interposed the Ranger.

"Some of it is sawed both ways," the boy replied. "Some logs are boiled
and then revolved on a lathe which makes a continuous shaving the
thickness of a match, and a lot of matches are paper-pulp, which is
really wood after all. There's no saying, Rifle-Eye," he continued,
laughing, "how many good trees have been cut down to make a light for
your pipe."

The old hunter puffed hard, as the pipe was not well lighted.

"Well," he said, "I guess I'll let the Forest Guards handle it." He
looked across at the boy. "It's up to you," he said, "to keep me goin.'
Got a match?"


[Illustration: MEASURING A FAIR-SIZED TREE.

Lumberman on the scene of felling operations checking up a timber sale.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: RUNNING A TELEPHONE LINK.]


[Illustration: RUNNING A TELEPHONE LINK.

Using the poles planted by Nature for annihilating space in sparsely
settled regions.

_Photographs by U. S. Forest Service._]


CHAPTER XI

AMIDST A CATTLE STAMPEDE


Wilbur would have liked greatly to be able to stay at his little tent
home and celebrate the Fourth of July in some quiet fashion, but the
fireworks folly of the professor's party had got on his nerve a little,
and he was not satisfied until he really got into the saddle and was on
his way to a lookout point. Nor was he entirely without reward, for
shortly before noon, as he rode along his accustomed trail, a
half-Indian miner met him and told him he had been waiting to ask him to
dinner. And there, with all the ceremony the little shack could muster,
this simple family had prepared a feast to the only representative of
the United States that lived near them, and Wilbur, boy-like, had to
make a speech, and rode along the trail later in the afternoon, feeling
that he had indeed had a glorious Fourth of July dinner in the Indian's
cabin.

The week following the Supervisor rode up, much to Wilbur's surprise,
who had not expected to see him back in that part of the forest so
soon. But Merritt, who indeed was anxious to get away, by his
conversation showed that he was awaiting the arrival and conveyance of a
trainload of machinery for the establishment of a large pulp-mill on the
Kern River. The trail over which this machinery would have to be taken
was brushed out and ready, all save about nine miles of it, a section
too small to make it worth while to call a Ranger from another part of
the forest. So the Supervisor announced his intention of doing the work
himself, together with Wilbur. The night preceding, just before they
turned in for the night, the boy turned to his chief and said:

"What time in the morning, Mr. Merritt?"

"I'll call you," replied the Supervisor.

He did, too, for at sharp five o'clock the next morning Wilbur was
wakened to find the older man up and with breakfast ready.

"I ought to have got breakfast, sir," said the boy; "why didn't you
leave it for me?"

"You need more sleep than I do," was the sufficient answer. "Now, tuck
in."

The boy waited for no second invitation and devoted his attention to
securing as much grub as he could in the shortest possible time.
Breakfast was over, the camp straightened up, and they were in the
saddle by a quarter to six. It was ten miles from Wilbur's camp to the
point where the trail should start. The country was very rough, and it
was drawing on for nine o'clock when they reached the point desired.

"Now," said the Supervisor, "take the brush hook and clear the trail as
I locate it."

Wilbur, accordingly, following immediately after his chief, worked for
all he knew how, cutting down the brushwood and preparing the trail.
Every once in a while Merritt, who had blazed the trail some distance
ahead, would return, and, bidding the boy pile brush, would attack the
underwood as though it were a personal enemy of his and would cover the
ground in a way that would make Wilbur's most strenuous moments seem
trifling in comparison. Once he returned and saw the lad laboring for
dear life, breathing hard, and showing by his very pose that he was
tiring rapidly, although it was not yet noon, and he called to him.

"Loyle," he said, "what are you breaking your neck at it that way for?"

"I don't come near doing as much as I ought unless I do hurry," he
said. "And then I'm a long way behind."

"You mean as much as me?"

The boy nodded.

"Absurd. No two men's speed is the same. Don't force work. Find out what
gait you can keep up all day and do that. Make your own standard, don't
take another man's."

"But I go so slowly!"

"Want to know it all and do it all the first summer, don't you? Suppose
no one else had to learn? I don't work as hard as you do, though I get
more done. You can't buck up against an old axman. I haven't done this
for some time, but I guess I haven't forgotten how. Go and sit down and
get your breath."

"But I'm not tired--" began Wilbur protestingly.

"Sit down," he was ordered, and the boy, feeling it was better to do
what he was told, did so. After he had a rest, which indeed was very
welcome, the Supervisor called him.

"Loyle," he said, "you know something about a horse, for I've watched
you with them. Handle yourself the same way. The Schloßberg runs into a
protruding angle down, the village is fairly regularly in the
opposite Halbzirkel built between the flowing stream, whose swelling
of a stone, the other posts, again with a bar and then with neighboring
planks store wants, but none of the other supports, much more and
the other damage and disadvantage brings.

This is the clumsy way in moving up soon, and soon down, and soon through
the water, soon to have stones. Have the people with hands, it would not
large subsidy will be needed to find a wall in a semicircle identifying
the path behind the houses to increase the nicest room built, cleanliness
of the place to enter into and through a large institution go all the
small, inadequate care at once to banish " .

'Let us try, "said the captain, by the situation with eyes overflowed
and quickly assessed." I like people with nothing and farmers have
to do them if I can not even order, "returned Edward." You did not so
wrong, "replied the captain," because I also made similar transactions
in the life of a lot annoyances. How difficult is it that man rather
consider what you must sacrifice against what winning is, how difficult
the want to end and the means not to spurn! Many even confused the means
and purpose, to enjoy those without this in mind.

Every evil in the place to be healed, and where it comes to light,
and it is sad not that the point where it takes its origin, how it works.
It is so difficult for Council to maintain, especially with the
amount in the daily is quite circumspect, but rarely sees more than
tomorrow. If even now to that one at a joint institute to win, the
other will lose, because now is nothing compared with them. Everything
really common good must be approved by the full Mejestätsrecht
encouraged.

"As they stood and talked, she begged a man who more cheeky than looked
needy.

Eduard, reluctantly interrupted and disturbed, scolded him after he left
him several times in vain had dismissed. But when the guy is grumbling,
yes gegenscheltend with small steps away on the Rights of the
beggar defied, you probably a alms fail, but it should not offend,
because he is as good as everyone else under the protection of God
and the government stand, Eduard came entirely from the text.

The captain, it begütigen said it: "let us this incident as a call
accept our rural police also has to be covered!

alms should be given once, but you do better if you do not even exist,
especially at home.

There should be uniform and moderate in everything, even in Wohltun.
An overly abundant gift attracts beggars herbei instead cleared, but
can probably be on the trip, flying in the past, a poor on the
road in the form of random luck and he will appear a surprising
gift zuwerfen like.

We make the situation of the village, the castle such an institution very
easy, I've previously thought. At one end of the village is the inn at
which others live a couple old, good people, at both places you have
to give a small sum of money down. Not Hereingehende of the village,
but the excess is replaced by something, and because the two houses also
are on the paths that lead to the palace, so will everything
hinaufwenden wanted the two points shown. "" Come, "said Edward,"
we want to arrange the same and the precise, we can still make up.

"They went to the landlord and the old couples, and the case was
dismissed."

I know quite well, "said Edward, by the Schloßberg together again
hinaufstiegen" that everything in the world arriving at a clever
idea and a firm resolve.

So you have to park my wife very rightly judged, and I also have a
Wink for the better given that I am her, how I do not want to deny,
once had "."

I could suspect it, "returned the captain," but not cheap. irregemacht
you have it, they can lie and everything in this trutzt single
thing with us, because it prevents them to speak and has not returned
to us Mooshütte invited, whether they coincide with Ottilien in
between hours goes up.

"Thus, we must," returned Edward, "is not deterred. If I'm convinced
something good, what could happen, and should, so I have no rest
until I see it done.

Are we but other wise, a little case! Let's see the English park with
descriptions Kupfern evening entertainment to make your Gutskarte
afterwards! One must only problematic, and only treat as a joke,
and the seriousness will find itself. " After this date the books were
opened, which is always the ground of the area and its scenic view
in its first, raw natural conclusion was drawn, then, at the other
leaves the change was introduced to the art made it to all the
existing good use and enhanced. of which was the transition to
personal possession, to the suitable environment and with what you
could be trained very easily.

The captain of the card designed to be used, was now a pleasant job, and
only one could be of this first presentation, after the Charlotte once
the matter had not quite loose. But we invented a slight rise
to the level, you wanted oberwärts on the slope in front of a nice match
A lustful perform building and this should be a reference to the castle
have made the Castle windows you should see it, from there to the
castle and gardens are again the best you can.

The captain did everything well considered and measured, and
brought those Dorfweg, those on Wall Bache ago, filling back to the
language. "I win," he said, "by I have a convenient way to hinaufführe
hill, just as many stones as I needed at that wall. As soon as one
accesses the other, both will probably quickly move files and "." But
now, "said Charlotte," is my concern. It must be something special be
suspended, and if you know how much to such a facility is required,
then divides it, where not weeks, but at least months. The fund is
under my order, I pay the note, and the bill itself, I "." You seem
not to trust too much, "said Edward." Not much at random things,
"returned Charlotte. "The arbitrary, we know better than to dominate
it."

The body was made, the work started quickly, the captain is always
present and Charlotte are now almost daily witness to his grave and certain
meaning. He also learned to know them closer, and two, it was easy , and
work together to bring something. It is with shops like the big punch:
Persons who hold the same step, must be indispensable, a mutual good will
must be necessary to originate, and that the captain Charlotte, since
she met him closer, wohlwollte really, this was a sure proof that it a
pleasant resting place, which they in their first facilities specially
decorated and had chosen, but his plane was opposed, not allowed
to destroy him, without even the least unpleasant sensation with you.

By now the captain Charlotte with a common employment took place, so
the result was that Eduard Ottilien more compounded. They spoke for
some time already been a quiet, friendly inclination in his heart.
against anyone, she was ready and courteous service, that they it against
him most was that his self-love would seem. Now, it was not a question:
what kind of food and how he loved her, she had just been noticed,
how much he sugar to tea and to take care of like what's more, it has
not escaped . Especially, it was carefully all draft off against an
exaggerated sensitivity and showed why with his wife, it is not
enough light could be, sometimes in opposition was given.

Also she knew the tree - flower and garden decision. What he wanted ,
sought to promote what could make him impatient, to prevent such a
way that they are just like a friendly spirit of protection was
essential to him and he began, their absence has to feel embarrassed.

Hiezu was still important that they talk and seemed to open as soon as
they just met. Eduard had in years, always growing something childlike
keep the youth Ottilien particular coherence. like you reminded of
earlier times, where they are seen, it rose up these memories in the
first epochs of the propensity to Eduards Charlotten. Ottilie wanted
the two of the most beautiful nor as Hofpaares remember, and if Eduard
such a memory from early youth all over arrangement, so they claimed,
especially a case yet to be fully present, as it once during his
Hereintreten lap hidden in Charlotte, not from fear but from
childish surprise.

You would have to be able: because he was so lively impression made upon
them, because he did it so well liked. In such circumstances, some
shops, which the two friends together earlier, in somewhat stalled so
that they were required to return a summary to them to design some essays,
letters to write. It is therefore ordered to their office, where the
old copyists were futile. They went to work and gave him to do so without
notice that he is keeping some of what else they themselves were
accustomed to perform. Immediately, the first essay to the captain,
just the first letter Eduards not succeed. They are tormented for a time
with designing and rewriting until finally Edward, which is the least
manner, after the time asked. As shown then, that the captain had forgotten
his chronometrische Sekundenuhr winding, the first time in many years,
and they seem, where not to feel, but knowing that the start time,
to be indifferent to them. By then the men in their activity somewhat
receded, grew much more the work of women. überhaupt takes the
ordinary life of a family consisting of the given people and necessary
circumstances arises, probably also an extraordinary passion, a
passion to be like a vessel, and it can be quite a time before this
new ingredient caused a noticeable fermentation and foaming over
the edge swell.

When our friends were the resulting mutual inclinations of the most
pleasant effect. The minds were opened, and a general goodwill arose
from the special. Every part felt happy and treat the other's happiness.
Such a situation raises the spirit, by the heart expands, and
everything you doing and making, has a direction against the performed.
There were also no longer the friends in her apartment uneasy. your
extended walks further, and if they Ottilien with Eduard, the paths to
choose, to pave the way, ahead, so followed with the captain in
Charlotten major entertainment, participating in some newly cookies,
to some unexpected prospect deign of the track that rapid predecessors.

One day, she led her walk through the castle gate of the right wing down
to the inn, over the bridge to the ponds , in which they went so far
as the water is usually pursued, then the banks, by a bushy mound of
rocks and witerhin included, stopped, to be passable.

But Edward, by his hunting excursions since the area was known, penetrated
with Ottilien on a vegetated paths further before, knowing full
well that the old, hidden between rocks mill was not far abliegen.

With the little path entering soon lost, and they were found in the
dense shrubbery between mossy rocks lost, but not for long, because
the noise of the wheels once they announced the close of the search
site.

On a cliff kicking forward, they saw the old, black, wonderful wooden
building basically in front of steep rocks and tall trees umschattet.

They decided to just and good, over moss and Felstrümmer down,
Eduard forward, and when he looked into the height and Ottilie
easily coordinated way, without fear and anxiety, in the finest
balance of stone to stone him followed believed he was a celestial
being to see that hovered above him.

And if they are sometimes uncertain of his body outstretched hand grasped,
so that based on his shoulder, then he could not deny that the
tender was being female, the touched him.

Almost he wished she would stumble, slip it into his arms field,
they could press his heart.

But this he would have done under any condition, from more than one
reason: he was afraid to offend, damaging them.

What this meant was, we learn immediately. Because when he herabgelangt
her among the tall trees on rural tables gegenübersaß, the friendly
Müllerin after milk, bewillkommende Müller Charlotten and contrary to
all the captain was caught with some Eduard hesitation to talk to: "I
have one request, dear Ottilie, forgive me if you would also fail, you
make no secret of the fact, and it needs it not, that you under your
clothes, on your chest a thumbnail bear. It is the image of your father,
honest man that you barely knew and in every sense a place in your
heart deserves.

But forgive me: the image is awkwardly large, and this metal, this glass
makes me one thousand fears if you have a child in the amount of
lift, a bit ahead hintragen when the coach varies, if we penetrate
through the bushes, just now, as we rock on herabstiegen.

Me is the terrible possibility that some unforeseen shock, one case, a
touch you and pernicious harm could be.

Do it my sake, remove the image, not from your memory, not from your room,
so you give him the most beautiful, the holiest place of your
dwelling only on your chest to remove something that's close to me,
perhaps from excessive anxiety , seems so dangerous!

"Ottilie and had remained silent while he spoke, before hingesehen,
then, without übereilung and without hesitation, with a view to the
sky more than Eduard turned on, it sparked the chain, pulled out
the picture, put it against her forehead and gave it to friends out
with the words: "Let me lift it, until we come home!

I can you not be better to witness how much I appreciate your kind
attention to appreciate.

"The friend did not dare to put the picture to his lips to press, but
he grabbed her hand and pressed it to his eyes.

They were perhaps the two most beautiful hands who ever joined. It was
as if a stone fell from the heart would be as if a separating wall
between him and Ottilien had resigned.

From Müller led Charlotte reached and the captain on a more convenient
path down. You are welcomed , we are delighted and refreshed. Return
the same way you would not return, and Edward proposed a Felspfad on
the other side of the brook, on which the ponds again came face by him
with some effort put back. durchstrich Now you alternating trees and
saw to the land to some villages, stains, Meierei with its green and
fertile environments; first Vorwerk, is at the height in the middle
of the wood was not confidential. At the best testified to the
greatest wealth of the area - and backward, sanfterstiegenen on the
height, because of a grove was funny and when stepping out on the
same rock over the palace was located.

How happy they were, as they should somehow unexpectedly arrived, you
had bypassed a small world, they were on the places where the new building
should go, and looked back into the window of her apartment. It rose
to Mooshütte and sat down for the first time is to four. Nothing was
more natural than that the unanimous desire was expressed that this current
path, which they slowly without the burden and not done so and
would like to be that he gregarious, strolling back and comfort
with assertion.

Any suggestions tat, and we calculated that the road to which they
had used for several hours, wohlgebahnt in an hour to Castle would
have to return. Even put it in your mind below the mill, where the brook
flows into the ponds, a landscape wegverkürzende and ornamental
bridge, when Charlotte inventions bade halt some imagination, they
remembered to cost, what to such a companies would be required. "Here
it is also important to help," returned Edward. "That Vorwerk in the
forest, which is so beautiful and seems to lie as little enters, we
can only sell and the resulting Resolved to use these facilities, so
we enjoy amusing an invaluable walks on the interests of a
wohlangelegten capital because we are now with displeasure at the
last calculation at the end of the year, a poor draw taking them.

"Charlottesville itself as a good housekeeper could not remember a lot
of contrast. The matter was earlier raised . Now the captain wanted
a plan to dismantle the sites covered by the Waldbauer make Eduard but
wanted to be shorter and simpler procedures know. The current leases,
the proposals already had done, it should be given time to pay, and so
we wanted to schedule the planned installations from route to route
out. So a sensible, moderate body was found by applause, and already
saw the whole society in the spirit of the new ways to weave, in which
and in whose vicinity there is the pleasant tranquility - and lookout
sites hoping to be discovered. To get anything more in detail to remember,
was one evening at home once the new card. You overlooked the road
and how he might in some places even more advantageous to lead would
be.

All previous intentions were durchgesprochen again with the latest
ideas connected , the square of the new home of the castle over again
and approved the circulation of the roads by then completed.
Ottilie had to all silent, as Eduard the last plan, which so far Charlotten
located before they hinwandte and they also invited their views to say,
and when she stopped for a moment, she lovingly encouraged, but not to
remain silent, everything was still indifferent, everything still
in its formative stages. "I would," said Ottilie, by the finger on the
top surface of the hill continued, "the house hieher build.

It would not be in the castle, because it is covered by forest, but you
also would be like in another world and new, by both the village
and all the apartments would be hidden. The view of the ponds, according
to the mill, to the heights in the mountains, after the country is
extraordinarily beautiful, and I've noticed in passing. "" She is right!
"
For a few fearful minutes Wilbur watched the ground beneath his horse's
feet, but saw no object in the occasional glimpses he could secure of
the dusty road. Once again Wilbur found himself being forced to the
outer edge of the road, but the cliff was shallowing rapidly, and now
they were not more than twenty feet above the valley with the road
curving into it in the distance. A couple of hundred feet further on,
however, a hillock rose abruptly, coming within four feet of the level
of the road, and Wilbur decided to put the pony at it, seeing there was
a chance of safety, and that even if they both got bad falls, there was
no fear of being trampled.

Allowing the pony to come to the outside, he reined her in hard and led
her to the jump, swinging from the saddle as he did so in order to give
both Kit and himself a fair chance. The pony, released from the weight
of the rider before she struck ground, met it in a fair stride, and
without losing footing kept up the gait to the bottom of the hillock,
pulling up herself on the level grass below. But Wilbur, not being able
to estimate his jump, because he was in the act of vaulting from the
saddle, struck the ground all in a heap, crumpled up as though he were
broken in pieces and was hurled down the hill, reaching the bottom
stunned. He was unconscious for several minutes, but when he came to
himself, Kit was standing over him, nosing him with her soft muzzle as
though to bring him round. Weakly he staggered to his feet, and seeing
Kit standing patiently, managed to clamber into the saddle.

The pony started immediately at an easy canter, crossing the valley and
meeting the herd where the road ran into the level. The cattle were
tired from the run, and sick and bruised as he was, Wilbur headed them
off and rounded them up, being aided presently by Rodgers and Grier, who
had found themselves unable to cut into the stampeding herd, and
consequently had waited until the whole herd got by, when they had
ridden back along the trail a little distance, got down to the creek by
a bridle path, and crossed the valley by a short cut.

In the distance Baldy could be seen grazing, and Wilbur lightly touched
Kit with the spur to find out what had happened. The bay, as soon as he
had stopped running, evidently had bucked off his two riders, who were
still sitting on the ground, apparently dazed. The man, who was
evidently an Eastern tourist, was pale as ashes and dumb with fright,
and could tell nothing. The boy knew no more than, "He had to let go, he
had to let go."

Together with Grier, Wilbur started back along the road to look for what
might be left of Merritt. The foreman tried to persuade the lad to stay,
for he was bleeding from a scalp wound and his left wrist was sorely
twisted, if not actually sprained, but Wilbur replied that he had said
he was going back to look for Merritt, and go back he would if both arms
and legs were broken. Kit, although very much blown, was willing to be
taken up the road at a fair gallop, when, just as they turned a corner,
they almost ran down the Supervisor, who was walking down the road as
unconcernedly as though nothing had happened.

"Oh, Mr. Merritt," cried the boy, "I thought you were dead."

"Cheerful greeting, that," answered the Forester. "No, I'm not dead. You
look nearer it than I do."

"But didn't you get run down?"

"Do I look as if I'd been a sidewalk for a thousand steers?" was the
disgusted reply. "Don't ask silly questions, Loyle."

But the foreman broke in:

"The boy's right enough to ask," he said; "an' there's no reason why you
shouldn't tell. How did you dodge the steers?"

"That was easy enough," said Merritt. "I held on to Baldy until I saw a
crack in the rock big enough to hold a man. Then I let go and crawled
into that until the herd passed by."

The boy breathed a sigh of relief.

"I sure thought you were gone," he said.

The Supervisor scanned him keenly, then slapped Kit heartily on the
flank.

"You've got a good little mare there," he said; "there's not many of
them could have done it. Tell me all about it some time. What started
them?" he added, turning to the cattleman.

"That fool new bridge gave way just as the last of the bunch crowded on
it. About twenty of them fell over the cliff there, and about thirty
more along the road. But it might have been a heap worse, an' you ought
ter have two life-savin' medals."

Merritt's only reply was a gesture of protest.

"An' you, youngster," went on the cattleman, "you kept your nerve and
rode a bully ride. I wish you'd take my quirt and keep it from me as a
remembrance of your first experience with a cattle stampede."

Wilbur stammered some words of thanks, but the foreman waved them aside.

"And now," said the Supervisor, with an entire change of tone, "I guess
we'll go back and get the pack-horse and go on to the valley."

As they rode over the bridge Wilbur noted with a great deal of interest
the breakage of the supporting timbers on the outer side, and looking
down into the valley beneath, he could see the bodies of the cattle who
had been pushed over the edge in the stampede.

"I read a story once," said the boy, "of a youngster who got caught in a
stampede of buffalo, and when his horse lost his footing he escaped by
jumping from the back of one buffalo to another until he reached the
outside of the herd. But I never believed it much."

"It makes a good yarn," said the Supervisor, "an' it's a little like the
story they tell of Buffalo Bill, who, trying to get away from a buffalo
stampede, was thrown by his horse puttin' his foot in a badger hole and
breaking his leg."

"Why, what in the world did he do?" queried Wilbur.

"He waited until the foremost buffalo was just upon him, then gave a
leap, clear over his horns, and landed on his back, then turning sharply
round so as to face the head instead of the tail, he pulled out his
revolver and kept shooting to one side of the buffalo's head, just past
his eye, so that at every shot the beast turned a little more to one
side, thus cutting him out of the herd. Then, when he was clear of the
herd, he shot the buffalo."

"What for?" asked Wilbur indignantly. "It seems a shame to kill the
buffalo which had got him free."

"What chance would he have had against an angered buffalo alone and on
foot?" said Merritt. "He couldn't very well get off and make a bow to
the beast and have the buffalo drop a curtsey?"

"I hadn't thought of that," said the boy, laughing.

"I was afraid I might have to try that dodge, but when I saw the crack
in the rock I knew it was all right."

"Well," said Wilbur as they turned off the road to where the pack-horse
had been picketed, "I think we're both pretty lucky to have come off so
easily."

Merritt looked at the lad. He was dusty and grimy to a degree, his
clothes were torn in a dozen places where he had gone rolling down the
hill, a handkerchief was roughly knotted around his head, and there were
streaks of dried blood in his hair.

"You look a little the worse for wear," he said; "maybe you'd better go
home, and I'll go on alone."

"I won't," said Wilbur.

"You what?" came the curt rebuke. "You mean that you would rather not."

"Yes, sir," said the boy. "I mean that I don't feel too used up."

The Supervisor nodded and rode on ahead. For a couple of miles or so,
they rode single file, and in spite of the boy's bold announcement that
he was not too badly shaken up, by the time he had ridden nearly an hour
more in the hot sun his head was aching furiously and he was beginning
to stiffen up. Accordingly he was glad when a cabin hove in sight, and
he cantered up to ask if they might call for a drink of water.

"We stop here," was the laconic reply.

As they rode up a big man came out of the house, which was quite a
fair-sized place, to meet them.

"Well, Merritt," he said, "what have you got for me this time?"
motioning to the boy.

"No patient for you, Doc," said Merritt; "one for your wife."

The mountain doctor laughed, a great big hearty laugh.

"Violet," he called, "you're taking my practice away from me. Here's a
patient that says he won't have me, but wants you."

Immediately at his call, a small, slender woman came to the porch of the
house, and seeing the doctor helping Wilbur down from the saddle,
stepped forward.

"I can walk all right," said Wilbur when the doctor put out a hand to
steady him. "I just wanted a drink of water."

"Right you are," said the doctor, "we'll give you all the water you
want, just in a minute. Now," he continued as he led the boy into the
house, "let's have a look at the trouble."

But Wilbur interposed.

"This Forest Service," he said, smiling, "is the worst that ever
happened for having to obey orders, and Mr. Merritt put me in charge of
your wife, not you."

The big doctor put his hand on the shoulder of his wife and roared until
the house shook with his laughter. It was impossible to resist the
infection, and Wilbur, despite his headache, found himself laughing with
the rest. But the doctor's wife, stepping quietly forward, took the lad
aside and, removing the handkerchief that Grier had wound around his
head, bathed the wound and cleansed it. She had just finished this when
the doctor came over, still laughing. He touched the wound deftly, and
Wilbur was amazed to find that the touch of this large, hearty man was
just as soft and tender as that of his wife. There was power in his very
finger-tips, and the boy felt it. He looked up, smiling.

"I guess you're Doctor Davis," he said.

"Why?" said the doctor; "what makes you think so?"

"Oh, I just felt it," the boy replied. "I've heard a lot about you."

"I'm 'it,' all right," said the doctor, "but you've refused to allow me
to attend you. I'll turn the case over to Dr. Violet Davis," and he
laughed again.

Mrs. Davis smiled brightly in response and continued attending to the
boy. Then she turned to the two men.

"You've put this case in my charge," she said, "and I'm going to
prescribe rest for a day or two anyway. That is," she added, "unless Mr.
Merritt finds it compulsory to take him away."

The Supervisor smiled one of his rare smiles.

"I wouldn't be so unkind as to take any one away from here
unnecessarily," he said, "no matter how busy. But there always is a lot
to do. Ever since the beavers first started forestry, it has meant work,
and lots of it. But if you're told to rest you've got to do it. I know.
I've been sick myself here."

The doctor slapped him on the shoulder.

"Beautiful case," he said, "beautiful case. But he wouldn't obey
orders."

"He always did mine," put in Mrs. Davis.

"I'm afraid I can't this time," said the Supervisor with one of his
abrupt changes of manner, turning to the door. "I'll call for Loyle on
my way home to-morrow."

"Oh, Mr. Merritt," began Mrs. Davis in protest, "he ought to have two or
three days' rest, anyway."

The chief of the forest turned to Wilbur.

"Well?" he queried.

The boy looked around at the comfortable home, at the big jovial doctor,
and his charming little wife, and thought how delightful it would be to
have a few days' rest. And his head was aching, and he was very stiff.
Then he looked at the Supervisor, quiet and unflinching in anything that
was to be done, working with him and helping him despite the big
interests for which he was responsible, he thought of the Forest Service
to which he was pledged to serve, he remembered his little tent home and
the portion of the range over which he had control, and straightened up.

"What time to-morrow?" he said. "I'll be ready."

"Middle of the afternoon," said Merritt. "So long."

He bade good-by to the doctor and his wife, and after having seen that
Kit was properly attended to, went on his way to the Kern River Valley,
to visit the Edison power plant erected on the river, and to prepare for
the installation of the new pulp-mill.

In the meantime, Wilbur, more fatigued by the day's excitement than he
had supposed himself to be, had fallen asleep, a sleep unbroken until
the evening. And all evening the doctor and his wife told him stories of
the Forest Service men and of the various miners, lumbermen,
prospectors, ranchers, and so forth, all tales of manliness, courage,
and endurance, and not infrequently of heroism. But when Wilbur told of
the professor and asked about other greenhorns that had come to the
forest, the doctor turned and asked him if he knew anything of "the boy
from Peanutville."

"He had just come into camp up here in the Sierras," said the doctor on
receiving the lad's negative reply, "from some little place in the
middle West that was giving itself airs as a city. He had read somewhere
about the forest Rangers, and he himself had been on several Sunday
School picnics in the woods, so he thought that he knew all about it. At
the end of his first couple of days' work he said:

"'I never supposed that a Ranger had to cut brush and build fence and
grub stumps and slave like a nigger. I don't believe he ought to. I
don't think it's what my people would like to have me do. I always
supposed that he just rode around under the trees and made outsiders toe
the mark.'

"I said he was a new Guard," the doctor continued, "but he said this in
camp to a group of old-timers with whom he had been working. They hadn't
worried him at all, but had given him a fair show and helped him all
they could. But this was too rich. They glanced at each other with
mingled contempt and amusement, then put on mournful faces, looked on
him solemn-eyed, and regretted the cruelties of the Service.

"'The boss,' they said, 'just sticks it on us all the time. We are
workin' like slaves--Guards and Rangers and everybody. It's plumb wicked
the way we're herded here.'

"So the new hand felt comforted by this outward sympathy, and he ambled
innocently on.

"'That heavy brush tears my clothes, and my back aches, and I burned a
shoe, and my socks are full of stickers. Then I fell on the barbed wire
when I was stretching it--and cut my nose. I tell you what it is,
fellows, if I ever get a chance to get away, I hope I'll never see
another inch of barbed wire as long as I live. If I was only back in
Peanutville, where I used to live, I could be eating a plate of ice
cream this minute instead of working like a dog and having to wash my
own clothes Sundays when I might be hearing the band play in the park.'

"'Too bad,' shouted the old Rangers in chorus, until a peal of laughter
that echoed through and through that mountain camp showed the indignant
youngster that his point of view hadn't been what you might say warmly
welcomed by the old-timers.

"But the following day, as I heard the story from Charles H. Shinn," the
doctor went on, "one of the best men in the gang took the lad aside the
following morning as they were riding up the trail, and said to him:

"'How much of that stuff you was preachin' last night did you mean? Of
course, this is hard work; it has to be. Either leave it mighty pronto,
or wrastle with it till you're a man at the game. I've seen lots of
young fellows harden up--some of 'em just as green an' useless when they
came as you are now. Don't you know you hold us back, and waste our
time, too, on almost any job? But it's the price we have to pay up here
to get new men started. Unless you grow to love it so much that there
isn't anything else in all the world you'd care to do, you ain't fit for
it, an' you'd better get out, and let some one with more sand than you
have get in.'

"Well, Loyle," the doctor said, "that youngster was provoked. He
wasn't man enough to get really angry, so that his temper would
keep him sticking to the work; he was one of these saucy
slap-'em-on-the-wrist-naughty kind.

"'I think all of you are crazy,' he said.

"He walked into the Supervisor's office that afternoon and explained
that the kind of work he had been given to do was altogether below his
intellectual powers. He never understood how quickly things happened,
but he signed a resignation blank almost before he knew it, and went
back to Peanutville.

"It so happened that one of the Rangers had friends in Peanutville, and
the boys at the camp followed the youth's career with much interest. He
clerked, he took money at a circus window, he tried cub newspaper work,
he stood behind a dry-goods counter, he was everything by turns but
nothing long."

"What finally happened to him?" asked Wilbur.

"Last I heard he was a salesman in a woman's shoe store. But he's still
with us in spirit," said the doctor, "as a horrible example. Right now,
down in the heart of a forest fire, when the Rangers are working like
men possessed down some hot gulch, one will say to the other:

"'Gee, Jack, if I was only back where I used to be, I could be having a
plate of ice cream this minute.' And the other will reply: 'I wish I
might be back in Peanutville and hear the band play in the park.' You
had to be the noisy bustle remember what Eduard celebrate her birth, she
had to commemorate the neugerichteten house under whose roof you
promised so much friendly.

Yes, the fireworks swept her again before the eyes and ears, as she was
lonely, the more before the imagination, but it felt even by the
more alone.

They leaned no longer on his arm and had no hope of him ever again
to find a support.

A remark of the young artist, I must record: "like most craftsmen so
the artists can be seen on the most are aware that man is the least capable
zuzueignen what belongs to him very specifically.

His works leave him as the birds that nest in which they were
hatched.

"The architects before all this has the amazing destiny. How often
turns his whole mind, his tendency to view rooms that are more
robust, from which he himself must exclude!

The royal rooms are owe him their splendor, their greatest impact
not mitgenießt.

In the temples, he pulls a boundary between themselves and the
Blessed, the steps he may no longer enter, which he founded to
hrzerhebenden solemnity, as the goldsmith, the monstrance only
worship from afar, whose enamel and precious stones he has
zusammengeordnet.

The rich are on the Builder with the key of the palace all the convenience
and sedateness, without anything like this mitzugenießen.

Do not allgemach in this way, the art of the artist to remove when
the works like a child is no longer featured on the father zurückwirkt?

And how much had the art of carrying herself, when she almost alone
with the public, with what all, and therefore also the artist
belonged to was determined to employ!

An Introduction the ancient peoples is serious and can seem terribly.

They thought that their ancestors in large caves around sitting on
thrones in silent conversation.

The new, the hereintrat if he was worthy enough, they stood and bowed
to him a welcome.

Yesterday, as I sat in the chapel and my carved chairs to several
more umhergestellt saw seemed to me even thought of that kind and graceful.
"Why can not you remain seated?" I thought to myself, "quietly and swept
you remain seated, long, long time, until finally the friends were, where
you aufstündest and their place with a friendly tilt anwiesest. The
colored disks make the day for serious dusk, and someone would have to
be a eternal lamp donate so that the night would not entirely gloomy.
One might arise as you want, and you think always looking. I think the
only person dreaming it so it does not stop to see.

It could well be that the inner light once herausträte us, so we no longer
need the other.

The Year from sound. The wind goes through the stubble and finds nothing
more to move, only the red berries of the trees seem to lean on something
we have to remember Munters want as we beat the Dreschers evokes the
idea that the spike as much abgesichelten nourishing and Living
lies.

How strangely had such events, according to this sense of impermanence
aufgedrungenen and Hinsch Ottilie winds through the message to be taken
to it no longer hidden was that Edward is changing the luck of war
have survived.

It escaped her, unfortunately none of the considerations that they
had cause to make.

Fortunately, the man is only a certain degree of misfortune summarize,
what goes beyond it, destroy it or cause him indifferent .

There are situations in which fear and hope to become, to mutually cancel
each other out and into a dark Fühllosigkeit lose.

How could we otherwise removed Loved Estonians in hourly danger of
knowing and yet our daily, ordinary life always continue to drive.

It was, therefore, as if a good spirit for Ottilien care would click on
this once in silence, in which they are lonely and idle seemed to
sink, a wild hereinbrachte Army, which, by it from the outside was
enough to create them and of itself led , both in their own efforts
to feel encouraged.

Charlotten daughter, Lucian, was barely out of the boarding house in the
big wide world underfoot, was hardly in the house of her aunt from
numerous surrounding society seen as a favor Would you really like
and attracted a young, very rich man indeed soon felt a violent
passion, they have to.

His wealth gave him a right to the best of any kind to call his own, and
it seemed to him nothing more than to go a perfect wife to him as the
world the rest would have to be envied. This family affair was what
Charlotten has been very much to do there, which they all reflexion,
their correspondence was devoted, to the extent that this was not
directed by Eduard detailed message, so Ottilie even more than usual
in recent years alone has remained .

This is known to the arrival of Lucian, in the home she had therefore
taken the necessary precautions, just so close that it was not
before the visit.

We wanted to advance or write, agreements, determine when the storm at
once on the lock and Ottilien hereinbrach. angefahren came chamber
maids, and now serves Brancards with suitcases and boxes, you have
believed a double and triple reign in the house to have, but only
now released the guests themselves: the great-aunt with Lucian and
some friends, the bridegroom was also not unaccompanied .

There lay the full Vorhaus Vacher, jacket bags and other leather casing.
secretes trouble with the many boxes and sheaths apart.

Geschleppes of the luggage and had no end.

Dazwischen it was raining with violence, which created some discomfort.
This impetuous driving Ottilie met with equanimity activity, so
it seemed a happy destiny in the most beautiful splendor, for they
had everything in a short time placed and arranged.

Everyone was lodges, all comfortably after his kind, and believed
to be well served, because he was not prevented from itself to
operate . Now, all happy, after a most arduous journey, enjoying some
rest, the bridegroom would have liked his mother approached to her
his love, his good will to affirm, but Lucian could not rest. It was now
on the fortunes reached a horse to be allowed to climb.

The bridegroom had fine horses, and you had to mount instantly. weather
and wind, rain and storm came not in attack, it was as if we only
lived to be wet and dry again. Feel it, to the bottom case, so they are
not asked what they anhatte clothes and shoes as she was: she had to
visit the plants from which they had heard much. What does not happen
to horses, was on foot durchrannt.

Soon she had seen everything and brought.

When the speed of their system was not easy to contradict each other.

The company had some things to suffer the most but the girls'
chamber, with the washing and ironing, splitting and sewing were
not ready.

Scarcely had they the house and the area is exhausted, as they have
felt obliged, rings in the neighborhood off visit.

Because we rode very quickly and drove to the neighborhood ranged
fairly far along.

The castle was inundated with counter visits, and so you do not miss want
certain days were soon used.

Meanwhile Charlotte with the aunt and the financial institution
of the groom, the inner sought to determine ratios and Ottilie with
their subordinates to ensure knew that nothing in it so much wants
to access is missing, because as hunters and gardeners, fishermen and
Kraemer were set in motion , Lucian was always like a burning comet
nucleus, a long tail on the ground.

The ordinary conversations eyes visit her very soon unpalatable. Hardly
that the oldest people a rest at the game table treat: who was still
quite mobile - and who could not by their irritating intrusiveness
in motion - had much, if not to the punch, but the lively lien,
penalty - and puzzle.

And despite all that, just as afterwards the Pfänder solution to them
was calculated, there has been but from the other side no one,
especially not a man, he liked one of his kind, from whatever he
wanted, completely empty, so there it was successful, some older
people from very important to win for themselves by just invading
their birth and name days ausgeforscht had particularly celebrated.

It was her very own skill zustatten, so by all the favors saw, each
for the most beneficiaries considered a weakness, which even the oldest
in the company guilty on allermerklichsten made . Schien it in their
plan to be men who have imagined something, rank, reputation, fame
or something important for themselves had managed to gain wisdom
and prudence to make zuschanden and her wild, whimsical nature
itself when Unhurried Gust to purchase, then came the youth but not
too short, and each had his portion, his day, his hour on it to
captivate and delight knew.

So she had the architects soon be envisaged, but his black hair so
langlockigen ease heraussah so straight and quiet in the distance
was, to all the questions short and sensible answer, but on nothing
else seemed inclined to establish that once they are, half-reluctant
half-cunning, decided him to the heroes of the day to make and thus
also for their farm to win.

Not for nothing did they bring so much baggage, so it was sometimes followed
her. She had on a infinite variety in the clothes provided. If it
was pleasure to deal with the three-day, four times and move with
ordinary, customary in the society clothes from morning until late
at night to switch between them as they appeared well once in the
real mask dress, as farmer and fisher, as a fairy and flower girls.
spurned you not to be a old woman to dress, to the more their young
fresh face out of the cowl hervorzuzeigen, and it really confused
by the current and the Imaginary in such a way that we deal with
the related Saalnixe and verschwägert to be believed.

What they are mainly used these fairings were positions mime and dance
in which they express different characters was handily. A gentleman from
her entourage had set up on the wing with their sign of the few music
needed to accompany It took only a brief arrangement, and they were
instantly in tune. One day, when they break in to buoyant ball on their
own secret drive out of walkways to maturity of such a representation
had asked, they seemed surprised and embarrassed, and let resisted
their long habit of asking.

She was undecided, the election was asked how a Imporvisator around an
object, until finally the piano playing Gehülfe with which it
abgeredet be liked, to put the wing, a funeral march began to play
and they called Artemisia to those which they had rehearsed so
splendidly.

You could ask, and after a brief absence, it appeared, at the tender
tones of the sad death march, in the shape of the royal widow, with
measured step, a front Aschenkrug hertragend. Behind her was a large
black table in a golden Reißfeder a piece of chalk wohlzugeschnitztes.
One of her admirers and aide, which she said something in his ear, and
went immediately to the architects to draw up to a certain extent
necessary and herbeizuschieben that he was the master builder
mausolus grave of the draw and therefore does not intend to extras,
but a serious player should imagine.

How embarrassed the architect also outwardly appear - since he made in his
very black, tight, modern civilian form a splendid contrast with those
Floer, crepe, Fransen, smelting , tassels and crowns - so he took
it like inside, just so strange was it to be.

With the greatest seriousness, he presented before the big table, which
held a few pages, and drew with great care and accuracy tomb, which is
more of a Lombard as a Carian king would have been under, but in such
beautiful conditions, so serious in its entirety, so witty in his
ornaments, that it is with pleasure and saw that it was ready,
admired.

He had in this whole period, almost does not violate the queen
turned, but all of his business attention.

At last, when he bowed before her and indicated that he now commands her
to have think they gave him the urn, and described the request,
this on top of the summit to see displayed.

He did it, though reluctantly, because it is the nature of its other
design would not fit.

What Lucian concerned, she was finally relieved of their impatience,
because their intention was not , a scrupulous drawing by him to
have.

If he had only a few strokes hinskizziert what about a similar monument
seen, and the rest of the time it is delivered, it would probably the
final destination and their wishes have been normal. In contrast,
his behavior was they are the biggest embarrassment, because if they are
equal in their pain, their requests and suggestions, their applause over
the gradually rather Emergent alternate and they looked at him several
times almost herumzerrte, just with him into a kind of money to come,
so but he proved even too stiff, so that they too often to take refuge
on the urn, they press to her heart and had to look to the sky,
yes finally, because similar situations, but always to increase, more
of a widow of Ephesus as a queen of Caria looked similar. The idea was
therefore in the situation, the piano player, who otherwise had
enough patience, not knowing more, in what tone he should avoid.

He thanked God when he was on the urn of the pyramid stand saw and fell
involuntarily, as the queen wanted to express their gratitude, in a fun
theme, so the idea is losing its character, but the company was completely
aufgeheitert that because solgeich told the lady for her excellent
expression and the architect for his artificial and delicate drawing a
joyful admiration to prove. Especially the bridegroom talked with
the Achritekten. "I'm sorry," said that "that the drawing is so
transient.

They allow at least that I mail them to me to my room and let me work with
you to entertain." - "If you can make fun," said the architect, "so I
can give you accurate drawings of buildings and monuments like this,
with this only a random, fleeting draft." Ottilie was not too far away
and joined the two.

"missed Do not, "she said to the architect," the Lord Baron occasionally
your collection to see, he is a friend of art and antiquity, and I hope
that you know more about. "Lucian herbeigefahren came and asked:" what
is the speech? " "From a collection of artworks," replied the Baron,
"which this gentleman and that he wants to show us occasionally."
He likes it just bring the same! " said Lucian. "Not true, you bring
them the same?" flattering, she added, by providing him with both hands,
touch-friendly. "It would now not be the time," returned to the
architect. "What!" cried Lucian imperative, "Do you want the command
does not obey your queen?"

Then they put on a naughty requests. "Be not stubborn!" Ottilie half said
quietly. The architect removed with an inflection, it was neither
positive nor negative. No sooner had he continued as Lucian wind up with
a game in the Saale herumjagte. "Oh!" she called out, by randomly
met at her mother, "as I am not unhappy, I have not taken my monkey,
you have me discouraged, but it is only the comfort of my people,
who helped me to bring this pleasure.

I want follow him but let it be someone out to fetch him.

If I only could see his portrait, so I would have been happy. I
want him, but certainly also paint, and he is not me by the side "."

Maybe I can comfort you, "returned Charlotte," if I give you in the
library for a whole band of the amazing images come monkeys do.

"Lucian shouted for joy, according to Folio and the band was placed. The
sight of these human-like by the artist and more humanised Lucian
hideous creatures made the greatest joy. Quite happy but she felt in
every one of these animals, the similarity with known human to find. "Does
not look like the uncle?" called them mercilessly, "like the
M-Galanteriehändler, like the S-priest, and this is the but - the - lives
in bodily form. Basically they're the actual monkeys Incroyable, and
it is incomprehensible how it the best company may be excluded. "She
said that in the best society, but no one took it amiss.

It was so accustomed to its much grace to allow that last all of their
bad habit allowed. Ottilie maintained, however, with the groom.

You hoping for the return of an architect whose serious, tasteful
collections of the society of this nature monkeys should be exempt.
In this expectation they had with the Baron and discussed it to some
attention. With the architect was, and when he finally returned, lost
he was under the society, without something to bring and to do without,
as if something would have been the issue. Ottilie was a moment - how
is mans name? - sullen, indignant, concerned they had a good word to
him turned they treat the groom amused an hour after his senses, in his
infinite love for Lucian but by her demeanor seemed to suffer. The monkeys
had to make room for a collation. Social games, yes even dancing, also
a loose freude around and a Wiederaufjagen Lust has lasted this fall,
as usual, far past midnight.

After Lucian had been accustomed, in the morning is not out of bed
and into bed at night not reach them.

At this time there are events in Ottilien Diary seltner noted more frequently
on regarding the life and maxims of life and disconnected sentences.
Because the same but most probably not by their own reflection can be
created, it is likely that she communicated any issue, from which
they are, what you gemütlich was issued.

Innigererem Some of My reference is to the thread probably to
recognize.

We look so happy in the future, because we Approximate, resulting in
her moving back and forth through hidden desires to be so fond of our
favor heranleiten like. We are not easy in high society, without thinking,
The coincidence of so many together, should we also bring our friends.
One might even confiscate live, I think you, before you know it, a
debtor or a creditor. Meets us someone who owes us thanks, it
is equally us. How often can we meet someone, to whom we owe thanks without
having to remember! To be notified in nature, reported on how it is,
is education. No one would talk much in society if he would be aware,
how often he misunderstands others. It changed from his speeches during
Repeat probably only a matter so much because they did not understand.

Who long before the others alone speaks without the audience to cajole,
excite disgust. Each distinct word excites the opposite sense. Opposition
Scheichelei and both make a bad call.

The companies are the most pleasant, in which a cheerful tribute to the
members against obwaltet. Nothing denote the character of its people
more than by what they find laughable. The ridicule stems from a
moral contrast, the in a harmless way for the meaning is associated.

The sensual man laughs often, where nothing is to laugh. What it also
stimulates his inner relish coming to light. The Reasonable finds almost
everything ridiculous, the sensible almost nothing. An elderly man is
suspected that he was still room for young woman sought . 'It is the only
means, "returned he," to rejuvenate itself, and yet everyone wants.
"You can reserved his shortcomings, you can punish them, they suffer
for their sake some things with patience, but will be impatient,
if they should sit. Certain defects are necessary for the existence of
the individual. We would be uncomfortable, if some old friends specificity
test. It says: "it dies soon," if a little like his way of doing. What
kind of defects we must keep, yes to us cultivate?

Those who flatter others rather than hurt them.

The passions are defects or virtues, only increased. Our passions
are real Phoenix. As the old burn, the new rising once again from
the ashes out.

Great passions are diseases without hope. What she could heal, it
certainly dangerous.

The passion and mitigates increased by Bekennen. In nothing would Mittelstraße
perhaps more desirable than in confidence and disclosure against
those we love.

So whipped Lucian living in the social whirl noise always before him
. your court propagated on a daily basis, partly because it attracted
some buzz and attracted, partly because it is through complacency
and others to connect Wohltun knew.

Mittteilend she was in the highest grade, because it by the slope
of the aunt of the bridegroom, and so much beauty Delicious and
were admitted at once, so they seemed to own nothing and have the
value of things not to know that they frequently had to. zauderte
So it is not a moment, a precious scarf and call it a woman's room
umzuhängen, allowing her to the other seemed to be poorly dressed,
and they did so in a naughty, clever ways that no one could refuse
such a gift.

One of her court had been a stock exchange and the contract, in the
places where they einkehrten, according to the oldest and hurt to
find and their condition at least for the moment easier.

This was her in the whole area a name of excellence, but also its
sometimes uncomfortable was because he too much annoying to those
in need they heranzog.

Nothing but propagated them much by its reputation as a bold, good,
persistent behavior against a hapless young man who fled the
company, because he, by the way nice and wohlgebildet, his right
hand, although laudable, in the battle was lost.

Verstümmlung This caused him such a discontent, it was so irksome to
him, that every new acquaintance is also always with his accident, should
make known that he would rather hid themselves to reading and other
studies and showed once and for all with the company not have wanted to
create.

But," he broke off
suddenly, "here's dad."

The bent figure in the saddle, riding an immense iron gray mare,
straightened up as the three rode close, and the old man turned a keen
glance on the boy. Instantly, Wilbur was reminded of the old hunter,
although the two men were as unlike as they could be, and in that same
instant the boy realized that the likeness lay in the eyes. The
springiness might have gone out of his step, and to a certain extent the
seat in the saddle was unfirm, and the strength and poise of the body
showed signs of abatement, but the fire in the eyes was undimmed and
every line of the features was instinct to a wonderful degree with life
and vitality. After a question or two to his sons he turned to the boy,
and in response to a query as to his destination, replied, in a
sing-song voice that was reminiscent of frontier camp-meetings:

"I'm goin' to the Promised Land. It's been a long an' a weary road, but
the time of rejoicin' has come. It is writ that the desert shall blossom
as a rose, an' I'm goin' to grow rose-trees where the cactus used to be;
the solitary place shall be alone no more, an' I and mine are flockin'
into it; the lion an' wolf shall be no more therein, an' the varmints
all are gone away; an' a little child shall lead them, an' before I die
I reckon to see my children an' my children's children under the shadow
of my vine an' fig tree."

Wilbur looked a little bewilderedly at the two younger men and one of
them said hastily:

"We're goin' down to the Salt River Valley, down in Arizona, where the
government has irrigated land."

"Oh, I know," said Wilbur, "that's one of the big projects of the
Reclamation Service."

"Have you been down there at all?"

"No," the boy answered, "but I understand that to a very great extent
much of the Forest Service work is being done with irrigation in view."

"They used to call it," broke out the old prophet again, "the 'land that
God forgot,' but now they're callin' it the 'land that God remembered.'"

Wilbur waited a moment to see if the old man would speak again, but as
he was silent, he turned to the man beside him:

"How did you get interested in this land?" he asked.

"I was born," the other answered, "in one of the villages of the
cliff-dwellers, who lived so many years ago. Dad, he always used to
think that the sudden droppin' out of those old races an' the endurin'
silence about them was some kind of a visitation. An' he always believed
that the curse, whatever it was, would be taken off."

"That's a queer idea," said the boy; "I never heard it before."

"Well," said the other, "it does seem queer. An' when the government
first started this reclamation work, dad he thought it was a sign, and
he went into every project, I reckon, the government ever had. An' they
used to say that unless 'the Apache Prophet,' as they called him, had
been once on a project, it was no use goin' on till he came."

"But what did he do?"

"They always gave him charge of a gang of men for as long as he wanted
it, and Jim an' I, we used to boss a gang, too. We've been on the
Huntley and Sun River in Montana, we've laid the foundation of the
highest masonry dam in the world--the Shoshone dam in Wyoming,--helped
build a canal ninety-five miles long in Nebraska, I've driven team on
the Belle Fourche in South Dakota; in Kansas, where there's no surface
water, I've dug wells that with pumps will irrigate eight thousand
acres, and away down in New Mexico on the Pecos and in Colorado on the
Rio Grande I've helped begin a new life for those States."

"An' a river shall flow out of it," the old man burst forth again, "an'
I reckon thar ain't a river flowin' nowhere that's forgot. I don't know
where Jordan rolls, but any stream that brings smilin' plenty where the
desert was before looks enough like Jordan to suit me. I've seen it, I
tell you," he added fiercely, turning to the boy, "I've seen the desert
an' I've seen Eden, an' I'm goin' there to live. An' where the flamin'
sword of thirst once whirled, there's little brooks a-ripplin' an' the
flowers is springin' fair."

"You must have seen great changes?" suggested the boy, interested in the
old man's speech.

"Five years ago," he answered, "we were campin' on the Snake River, in
southern Idaho. There was sage-brush, an' sand, an' stars, an' nothin'
else. An engineerin' fellow, who he was I dunno, rides up to the fire.
Where he comes from I dunno; I reckon his body came along the road of
the sage-brush and the sand, but his mind came by the stars. An' he
takes the handle of an ax, and draws out on the sand an irrigatin'
plan. There wasn't a house for thirty miles. An' he just asks if he
shall go ahead. An' I knows he's right, an' I says I knows he's right,
an' he goes straight off to Washington, an' now there's three thousand
people where the sage-brush was, and right on the very spot where my
campfire smoked just five years ago, a school has been opened with over
a hundred children there."

He stopped as suddenly as he began.

"There was some great work in the Gunnison canyon, was there not?"
queried Wilbur.

The old man made no reply, and the son answered the question.

"When they had to lower a man from the top into the canyon, seven
hundred feet below," he said, "Dad was the first to volunteer. I reckon,
son, there's no greater story worth the tellin' than the Uncompahgre
tunnel. And then, I ain't told nothin' about the big Washington and
Oregon valleys, where tens of thousands now have homes an' are rearin'
the finest kind of men an' women. But, as dad says, we're comin' home.
There's four centuries of our history and there's seven centuries of
Moki traditions, an' still there's nothing to tell me who the people are
who built the cliff-town where I was born. Dad, he thinks that when the
water comes, perhaps the stones will speak. I don't know, but if they
ever do, I want to be there to hear. It's the strangest, wildest place
in all the world, I think, and while it is harsh and unkindly, still
it's home. Dad's right there. These forests are all right," he added,
remembering that the boy was attached to the Forest Service, "but for
me, I want a world whose end you can't see an' where every glance leads
up."

"Do you suppose," said Wilbur, "that in the days of the cliff-dwellers,
and earlier, the 'inland empire' was densely populated?"

"Some time," the other replied slowly, "it must have been. Not far from
my cliff home is the famous Cheltro Palace, which contains over thirty
million blocks of stone."

"How big is it?" asked Wilbur.

"Well, it is four stories high, nearly five hundred feet long, an' just
half that width."

Wilbur whistled.

"My stars," he ejaculated, "that is big! And is there nothing left to
tell about them?" he asked.

The other shook his head.

"Nothing," he answered.

"They were, an' they were not," interjected the old patriarch. "I looked
for the place where I should find him, an' lo, he was gone. They were
eatin' an' drinkin' when the end came, an' they knew it not. Like enough
they had some warnin' which they heeded not, an' their house is left
unto them desolate. An' we go in and possess their land. Young man, come
with us."

Wilbur started.

"Oh, I can't," he said. "I should like to see some of those projects,
but my work is here. But I'm one of you," he added eagerly; "the rivers
that flow down to enrich your desert rise from springs in our mountains,
and all those springs would dry up if the forests were destroyed. And
all the headwaters of the streams are in our care."

"You kind of look after them when they're young," Wilbur's companion
suggested, "that we can use them when the time is ripe."

"That is just it," said Wilbur. Then, turning to the old man, he added:

"I must go back to my patrol," he said, "but when you're down in that
Garden of Eden, where the river is making the world all over again,
you'll remember us once in a while, and the little bit of a stream
that flows out of my corral will always have good wishes for you down
there."

The old man turned in his saddle with great dignity.

"There be vessels to honor," he said gravely, "an' to every one his
gifts. Go back to your forest home an' work, an' take an old man's
wishes that while water runs you may never want for work worth doin',
for friends worth havin', an' at the last a tally you ain't ashamed to
show."

Wilbur raised his hat in salute for reply and reined Kit in until the
party was lost to view. The afternoon was drawing on and the lad had
lost nearly two hours in following the party, and in his chat with the
old patriarch, but he could not but feel that even the momentary glimpse
he had been given of the practical workings of the reclamation work of
the government had gone far to emphasize and render of keener personal
interest all that he had learned at school or heard from the Forest
Service men about the making of a newer world within the New World
itself. And when he remembered that over a quarter of a million
families, within a space of about six years, have made their homes on
what was an absolute desert ten years ago, and that these men and women
were stirred with the same spirit as the old patriarch, he felt, as he
had said, that the conserving of the mountain streams was work worth
while.

As it chanced, he passed over the little stream whose channel he had
cleared on one of his patrol rides, and he stopped a moment to look at
it.

"Well," he said aloud, "I suppose some youngster some day will be
picking oranges off a tree that would have died if I hadn't done that
day's work," and he rode on to his camp greatly pleased with himself.

For a day or two the boy found himself quite unable to shake the spell
of the old patriarch's presence off his mind, and the more he thought
over it, the more he realized that scarcely any one thing in the whole
of the United States loomed larger on its future than the main idea of
Conservation. It had been merely a word before, but now it was a
reality, and he determined to take the first opportunity he would have,
during his vacation, of going down to the Salt River Valley to see the
old patriarch once again.

And still the weather grew hotter and the sky remained cloudless. And
now, every evening, Rifle-Eye would telephone over to make sure that
Wilbur was back at camp and that there was as yet no danger. They had
had one quite sharp tussle at a distant point of the forest, and one day
Wilbur had received orders to make a long ride to a lookout point in
another part of the forest, the work of a Guard who had been called away
to fight fire, but so far, Wilbur had been free. Two or three times he
found himself waking suddenly in the night, possessed with an intense
desire to saddle Kit and ride off to a part of the forest where he had
either dreamed or thought a fire was burning, but Rifle-Eye had been
careful to warn him against this very thing, and although the morning
found him simply wild to ride to this point of supposed danger, he had
followed orders and ridden his regular round.

Although Wilbur's camp was high, the heat grew hard to bear, and when
the boy passed from the shade of the pine along the naked rock to some
lookout point the ground seemed to blaze under him. The grass was
rapidly turning brown in the exposed places, and the pine needles were
as slippery as the smoothest ice.

Just at noon, one morning, Wilbur turned his horse--he was not riding
Kit that day--into one of these open trails, and taking out his glasses,
commenced to sweep the horizon. A heat haze was abroad, and his
over-excited eyes seemed to see smoke everywhere. But, as he swept round
the horizon, suddenly his whole figure stiffened. He looked long, then,
with a sigh of relief, turned away, and completed his circuit of the
horizon. This done, he directed the glasses anew where he had looked
before. He looked long, unsatisfied, then lay down on the rock where he
could rest the glasses and scanned the scene for several minutes.

"Be sure," Merritt had once warned him, "better spend a half an hour at
the start than lose two hours later."

But Wilbur felt sure and rushed for his horse. Half-way he paused. Then,
going deliberately into the shade of a heavy spruce, he half-closed his
eyes for a minute or two to let the muscles relax. Then quietly he came
to the edge of the cliff, and directing his glasses point-blank at the
place he had been examining so closely, scanned it in every detail. He
slipped the glasses back into their case, snapped the clasp firmly,
walked deliberately back to his horse, who had been taking a few
mouthfuls of grass, tightened the cinches, looked to it that the saddle
was resting true and that the blanket had not rucked up, vaulted into
the saddle, and rode to the edge of the cliff. There was no doubt of it.
Hanging low in the heavy air over and through the dark foliage of pine
and spruce was a dull dark silver gleam, which changed enough as the
sunlight fell upon it to show that it was eddying vapor rather than the
heavier waves of fog.

"Smoke!" he said. "We've got to ride for it."


[Illustration: NO WATER, NO FORESTS. NO FORESTS, NO WATER.

Example of country which irrigation will cause to become wonderfully
fertile.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: WITH WATER!

In the foreground, a field and orchard; in the background, the
sand-dunes of the arid desert. Transformation effected by a tiny stream
and a poplar wind-break.

_Photograph by U. S. Forest Service._]


CHAPTER XV

THE FOREST ABLAZE


As Wilbur broke into a steady, if fast pace, it seemed to him that all
his previous experiences in the forest had been directed to this one
end. True, once before, he had seen smoke in the distance and had ridden
to it, but then he had felt that it was a small fire which he would be
able to put out, as indeed it had proved. But now, while there was no
greater cloud of smoke visible than there had been before, the boy felt
that this was in some measure different.

As his horse's hoofs clattered on the trail, it seemed to his excited
fancy that every inch of ground was crying to the valley below, "He's
coming," the wind that blew past him seemed filled with purpose, every
eddying gust awoke in him a greater desire to reach the place of danger
before the wind should rise to higher gusts, and as the needles of the
pines whispered overhead it seemed to Wilbur that they murmured, "Hurry,
hurry, if you want to be there on time." Over and over again, he found
himself on the point of using the whip or spurs to induce a greater
burst of speed, but as often as he did so, the old short, curtly-worded
counsels of Merritt came back to him, never to press his horse if the
ride was to be of any length, and he grew to believe that the animal
knew as well as the rider the errand on which he was bound.

He had thought, before starting, of riding back to his camp and
telephoning to Rifle-Eye, but the knowledge that after all it might be a
little fire kept him back. All the tales that he had ever heard about
forest fires rushed through his mind, but he resolutely set them aside
to watch his horse's path, to hold him in where he would be apt to
stumble, to give him his head on rising ground, and to bring him to
speed where the trail was easy to follow. Two hours he rode, his horse
well in hand, until he came to the place where he had decided from his
lookout point that he would have to leave the trail and plunge through
the forest itself.

This was a very different matter, and Wilbur found himself wondering how
his horse kept his footing. He was not riding Kit, for which he was
glad, as in leaving the trail and plunging downhill he had struck some
parts of the forest where undergrowth was present, and his favorite
mare's slender legs would have been badly scratched. Also the footing
grew dangerous and uncertain. There had been many windfalls in the
forest, and now was no time to take them quietly; a flying leap, not
knowing what might be on the other side, a stumble, perhaps, which sent
the boy's heart into his mouth, a quick recovery, and they were off
again, only to find, perhaps, a few yards further on, a bowlder-strewn
gully which it would have been madness to take at other than a walk. But
the boy chafed terribly at each and every stay to his ride, and he had
to hold himself in hand as much as he had his horse.

Little by little the exhilaration of the ride stole into his veins. He
was alone in the forest, he and his horse, the world was all before, and
he must ride and ride. He shouted as he rode under the towering pines,
raced across a clearing with a whoop that roused the echoes, and yelled
for sheer delight in the mad ride through the untraveled forest, where,
as the knights of old, he rode forth to conquer and to do.

But a sudden, sharp, acrid whiff of vapor in his nostrils checked his
riotous impulses. It was one thing to ride out to meet the foe, it was
another matter when the foe was known to be near. A half mile nearer and
the acrid taste in the air turned to a defined veil of smoke, intangible
and unreal, at first, which merely seemed to hang about the trunks of
the mighty trees and make them seem dim and far away. Nearer yet, and
the air grew hard to breathe, the smoke was billowing through the
foliage of the pines, which sighed wearily and moaned in a vague fear of
the enemy they dreaded most.

A curving gully, too wide to leap, too deep to cross readily, had
deflected the boy in his ride until he found himself to the lee of the
fire, and the heat of it, oppressive and menacing, assailed him.

Remembering the lay of the land, as he had seen it from his lookout
point, Wilbur recalled the fact that no peak or rise was in the vicinity
up which he could ride to gain a nearer view of the fire, and he did not
dare to ride on and find himself on the windward side of the fire, for
then his efforts to hold it back would be unavailing. He rode slowly
till he came to the highest tree near. Then, dismounting, Wilbur tied
his horse to the foot of the tree, tied him as securely as he knew how,
for the animal was snorting in fear at being thus fastened up when the
smoke was over his head and the smell of the fire was in his nostrils.
Then, buckling on his climbing irons, which he had carried with him that
morning because he had thought, if he had time, he might do a little
repairing to his telephone line, he started up the side of the great
tree. Up and up he went, fifty, sixty, one hundred feet, and still he
was not at the top; another twenty feet, and there far above the ground,
he rested at last upon a branch whence he could command an outlook upon
the forest below.

The fire was near, much nearer than he had imagined, and had he ridden
on another ten or fifteen minutes, he might have taken his horse in
danger. The blaze was larger than he thought. For half a mile's length,
at least, the smoke was rising, and what was beyond he could not rightly
see, because the branches of a large tree obscured his sight.

Immediately below him, the little gully, whose curving course had turned
him from the straight path, seemed to be the edge of the flames, which
had not been able to back up over the water. On this side, clear down to
the water's edge the forest floor was burning, but how wide a stretch
had been burned over he could not see. Once on the other side of the
gully he would be able to judge better what to do.

Below his horse neighed shrilly.

Looking straight down, Wilbur noted a long rolling curl of smoke steal
swiftly along the ground a few hundred yards away, and he saw there was
no time to lose. Springing from the branch to the trunk of the tree, he
started to climb down. But he was over-hurried, and his feet slipped. It
was only a foot at most, and Wilbur was not easily frightened, but he
turned cold and sick for an instant as he looked below and saw the
height from which he so nearly had fallen. Minutes, nay seconds, were
precious, but he crawled back upon the branch and sat still a moment to
steady his nerves. So startling a shock for so small a slip! He felt
thoroughly ashamed of himself, but it had been quite a jolt.

Again the horse neighed, and the fear in the cry was quite unmistakable.
Gingerly this time, Wilbur left the kindly support of the branch and
made his way down the trunk of the tree, heaving a sigh of profound
thankfulness when he reached the ground. His horse looked at him with
eyes wild with terror and every muscle atwitch. It was the work of a
moment to unfasten the ropes and vault in the saddle, but Wilbur needed
all his horsemanship to keep the horse from bolting. Indeed, he did
start to run away with the boy, but Wilbur sawed him into a more normal
pace and headed him down the gully.

Although the weather had been dry, it seemed that not a few springs must
flow above, for there was quite a stream of water, not deep, but rushing
very swiftly, and consequently hiding the bottom of the stream. It was
no time for looking for a ford, and so, after leading the horse down the
bank by the bridle, Wilbur got into the saddle to put the horse across.
He would not budge. Every muscle and nerve was tense, and the fire,
owing to the curvature of the stream, seeming to come from the other
side, the horse refused to move. I feel quite well that the fate of
several now in my hands, and what I have to do is to me beyond doubt,
and very soon. I agree to the divorce. I'd sooner decide I should, by
my procrastination, my reluctance, I have the child killed. There are
certain things which makes the fate stubbornly. forgiveness that reason
and virtue, duty and all the saints to him in the way it should be
something done to him what is right, what we does not seem right,
and so it takes up most recently by, we like our sign, as we want.
But what I say! Actually, the fate of my own desire, my own intent,
against which I unbedachtsam traded back into the path. Habe I do not
even have Ottilien and Eduard me than the thought of becoming couple
together? Have I not even close to each other, both looking for?
Were you not, my friend, Mitwisser this plan and why I could own a
man's sense of true love does not differentiate? Why I took his hand to,
because I, as his girlfriend and a wife happy others would have done?
And just look at this unfortunate slumbering, I tremble before the
moments when half dead from their sleep to consciousness awakens.

How will they live, how should it be comforting if they can not hope,
through their love Eduards to replace what he is as a tool of the most
amazing coincidence has robbed? And they can give him back after the
pitch, after the passion with which she loves him. Does love, to tolerate
everything, so they can do much more to replace everything. To me at
this moment should not be thought. away in silence, my dear Major.
Eduards say that I am willing to divorce, him that I, you, all the
intermediaries case leave that I am about my future and am unconcerned
situation in every meaning can be. I want to sign any document that
you bring me, but you just do not ask of me that I involved, that I
remember that I advise. "The major stood up. You gave him her hand over
Ottilien away. He pressed his lips to those lovely hands." And for me,
what can I hope? "lispelte he quietly." Let me give you the answer
remains, "returned Charlotte." We have no debt, to be unhappy, but do
not deserve to be happy together. "The Major away, deep in the heart
Charlotten deploring the poor but secluded child to be sorry.

Such victims seemed to him necessary to their mutual happiness. Ottilien
He thought that with a suitable child in her arms, as the perfect
substitute for what they Eduards robbed, he thought a son on the lap
of with several legal likeness would be sequestered as. So flattering
hopes and images went through his mind when he was on his way back after
the inn was Eduards the whole night outside the Major had expected, because
no fire sign him, no thunder sound announce a successful outcome wanted.
He already knew of the accident, and he, rather than the poor creature
to be regretted, this case did not quite want to admit, as a
coincidence in which every obstacle to his happiness would be removed
at once .

Gar, he may, therefore, the major move, which he quickly decided his wife
announced, again after that village and then after the small town
to return to where they think the next one and wanted to initiate.
Charlottenstrasse sat after leaving the Major had only a few minutes into
their considerations are sunk, because immediately directed to Ottilie,
her friend with big eyes sight. first rose from the bosom, then from the
Earth and stood in front of Charlotte. "For the second time" - so began
the wonderful child with an insurmountable, graceful seriousness
- "the second widerfährt me the same thing.

You told me once that people encounter in their lives, often similar
in a similar way and always in important moments. now I think the remark
is true and I pushed, dir confession to make. Shortly after my mother's
death, as a small child, I had my stool attention to you, you sat on the
sofa as now, my head was on your knees, I slept not, I did not wake, I
slumbered. I hear everything around me was experiencing, especially all
the talk very much, and yet I could not rain, I do not speak and if
I wanted would not mean that I am aware of my own time. At that time you
spoke with a friend about me, you regret my fate as a poor orphan in
the world remained to be, you schuildertest my situation and how dependent
it is unfortunate to me is possible, if not a lucky star besondrer about
me Walter. I took everything well and accurately, perhaps too strict,
what you wish for me to be what you think of me seemed to demand. I
made myself for my limited insights on this legislation, after
this, I have lived long after they were doing and let my established
at the time, because you loved me, cared for me, because you have
me in your home recording, and even a time afterwards.

But I'm in my train progressed, I have my laws broken, I've even lost
the feeling that , and after a terrible event klärst me again about my
condition, which is more deplorable than the first. resting on your lap,
half-frozen, as if from a strange world I once consultation your little
voice over my ear, I hear, as it looks with myself, I shudder about
myself, but then as I have this half-dead in my sleep like my new
track out. I am determined, as ichs was and why I am determined, you
have to give the same experience. Eduards werd ich Never! In a terrible
way, God has opened my eyes to what crime I am uneasy. I want to
atone, and no one remember me from taking my intent!

Then, love, best, take your measures. Let the Major to come back, write
him that no action has happened. As I was afraid that I am not able
to stir and stimulate, as he went. I wanted to call for yelp: you should
not be with him so sacrilegious hopes dismissed. "Charlotte looked
Ottilien condition, they felt it but they hoped through time and ideas
about them to win. But when they say a few words, was to have a future,
to a mitigation of Pain, Hope pointed to: "no," cried Ottilie with
survey; "I'm not looking to move not to go behind! At the moment I
know, you habest in the divorce gewilligt, I buses in the same lake my
crime, my crime.

"When in a happy, peaceful coexistence relatives, friends, domestic
partners, more than necessary and proper, from the entertainment,
what is happening or will happen if they are to each other their
intentions, activities, occupations and repeatedly communicate
without being mutual advice, but always the whole life like lagend
ratchet handle, so you can find on the other hand, in important
moments, precisely where it should seem, the man needed foreign
assistance, foreign confirm most of all, that the individual himself
to retire, each to act for themselves, each in his own way, strives
to act and, by looking at each other the individual funds hides,
only the first output, the purpose has been achieved back to the
commons.

After so many wonderful and unfortunate events, was also a certain
seriousness about the silent girlfriends come, which is in a lovely
conservation said.

In the silence Scharnstein Lotte had the child sent to the chapel. It
rested there as the first victim of an unknowing full Verhängnisses.
Charlottenstrasse reversed, so it was possible, against the life back,
and here she found Ottilien first, which they needed assistance. They
dealt excellent with her, without, however, remember to leave. They knew
how much the heavenly Eduards loved child, they had to and after
the scene to the previous accident was herausgeforscht and partly by
any circumstance Ottilien itself, partly by letters of the majors learn.
Ottilie facilitated by their side Charlotten much the current life. It
was open, so talkative, but was never present on the past or just talk.
She had always aufgemerkt always observed, they knew a lot, which
all came to light .

They maintained that they distracted Charlotten that still nurtured
the hope of quiet, a couple their combined worth to be seen. Ottilien
hung alone in there otherwise. It was the secret of her life Ganges
girlfriend discovered she was from her early restriction relieved
of their subservience.

Through their repentance by their decision, she also freed from the
burden of that offense, that misfortune.

They needed no more violence on themselves, they had in the depths of
their hearts only on the condition of complete renunciation forgiven,
and this condition was essential for all future. verfloß So for
some time, and Charlotte felt like a house and park, lakes, rocks
- and groups of trees just sad sentiments in them both daily renewed.

That one should change the location, was all too clearly how it should
happen, not so easy to decide.

If the two women together? Eduards earlier will, it seemed to require his
statement, his threat is necessary to do alone as it was to be
denied that both women with all good will, with all reason, with
all the effort in an embarrassing situation were side by side?

Your conversations were avoided. Sometimes I would love something like
you only half understand, but it was often an expression, where not by
the mind, at least by the sensation misinterpreted. You are afraid
to hurt, and just the fear was at the first vulnerable and injured
on the first.

If we change the place and at the same time, at least some time to
separate, so the old question came back out, where Ottilie hinbegeben
should. That big, rich house had made unsuccessful attempts, a hopeful
Erbtochter entertaining and competitive Gespielinnen to provide . Even
in the presence of the past and recently by Baronesse Letters Charlotte
was been asked to send Ottilien there and now she brought it again to the
language.

Ottilie but expressly refused to go where they would find one, what
one big world give care.

"Allow me, dear aunt," she said, "so I was not restricted and
stubborn appeared, that pronounce what to conceal, to hide in
another case would be mandatory.

A strange unhappy person, and if he also blameless would be a terrible
way to be drawn. His presence aroused in all who see him are aware,
a kind of horror. Ungeheure Everyone wants to see him, which was
imposed on him, everyone is curious and fearful at the same time. So a
house, a city, what a tremendous indeed happen every awful, which it
enters. There shines the light of day is not so bright and the stars
seem to lose their shine. How large and high, perhaps to apologize is
against such unhappy the indiscretion of people, their intrusiveness
silly and clumsy goodness! Forgive me that I'm talking about, but I did
with that incredibly poor girls suffered, as it Lucian from the
hidden rooms of the house hervorzog, is friendly with him, late in
the best intentions to play and wanted to dance necessary. as the
poor child and always anxious bänger last fled and fell fainting,
I took in my arms, the Company shocked, excited and everyone certainly
curious about the accident was blessed because I thought not that
I am an equal fate bevorstehe, but my compassion, so true and lively,
is still alive.

Now I can pity my turn against myself and I care not that I do not give
rise to similar appearance there. "" You will, however, my dear
child, "returned Charlotte," the sight of people you can never
escape. convents, we have no where else in a free base for such
feelings was to be found "."

Loneliness does not make you free Instead, dear aunt, "returned Ottilie."
The schätzenswerteste Instead, there is free to search where we may
operate. Büßungen All, all hardships are not likely to provide us a
full ahnung skill to escape, if we decided to pursue. Only when I idle
in the states of the world should serve to review , then it is
repugnant to me and frightens me.

If I am but happily at work, unermüdet in my duty, then I can gaze of
each stand, because the God I do not need to shy away. "" I would have
to me very wrong " , Charlotte returned, "if you do not tilt to
the pension zurückzöge."

"Yes," returned Ottilie, "I do not deny it, I think it is me as a
happy destination, others in the usual way to educate, if we are
on the strangest brought up.

And we do not see in history that people who are on great moral injuries
in the deserts retreated, then no, as they hoped, hide, and were
covered?

They were called back into the world to astray on the right Way to
lead, and who could do better than those in the Irrgängen of life
already initiated, you were called to help the unfortunate, and who
managed the more than themselves, where no earthly calamity could
meet more!

"" You choose a strange destination "returned Charlotte. "I do not resist,
it may be, if only, I hope, in the short time". "How much I thank you,"
said Ottilie, "that you give me this trial, to allow us this experience.
Flatterer I not too much, so I will succeed. That places I'll remember
how many tests I ausgestanden and how small, they were void as
against the one I had to learn afterwards.

How do I clear the embarrassment of the young Auschößlinge look at their
child's pain and they are smiling with quiet hand in all small aberrations
lead out. The Happy is not suitable vorzustehen lucky it is in human
nature, more and more of himself and of others to require the more they
received. Only the unhappy, who is recovering knows for himself and others
to nurture the feeling that even a moderate with good delight to be
enjoyed. "" Let me against your intent, "said Charlotte last After
some doubts, "Throw another quote that seems to me the most.

It is not about you, it's a third of the speech. The views of the good,
sensible, pious Gehülfe you are known in the way you go , you will
be good to him every day and be indispensable.

Since he is already feeling its not like to live without you like,
he will also in future, once your participation is usual, his
business without you no longer can manage.

You will initially to assist him to bring it to him afterward verleiden
"." The skill is not smoothly proceed with me, "returned Ottilie," and
who loves me, maybe not much better to expect. So good and sensible
as the friend is well, I hope will be reflected in him the sensation
of a pure relationship with me to develop, he will be consecrated in
me a person in sight, which only by a tremendous evil for himself and
perhaps others aufzuwiegen can, if they are devoted to the saints,
the , invisibly surrounding us, alone against the immense powers
beschirmen can be intrusive.

"Charlotte took everything that the dear child so warmly expressed to
silent reflection. She had several, although the quietest, angeforscht
if not a rapprochement Ottilien to Eduard conceivable was, but even
the slightest mention of the least hope, the slightest suspicion Ottilien
seemed to stir up the deepest, she said yes once, because they
could not handle it, this quite clearly.

"If your decision," said her Charlotte "Eduards to abdicate, it is fixed
and immutable, so just beware of the danger of the reunion.

The removal of the beloved object, we seem, as our inclination is
livelier, more Lord of ourselves, by our All violence of passion,
as they extended outward, inward turn, but how soon, how quick we
are torn from this mistake, if one, what we believed to be unfounded,
at once recognized as indispensable stands before our eyes.

Tue Now, what you on your states under the most do, check yourself, yes
verändre prefer to present your decision: but from yourself, from
free, wanting to heart.

Let yourself not by chance, not by surprise in the previous relations
are once again drawn into it, then there is only a conflict in the
mind, which is unbearable.

As I said before you do this step before you remove from me and start a
new life that will take you who knows which way forward, so remember,
once again, if you're really for all Future Eduards can abdicate.

Did you determine this, however, so we made a covenant that you are
not letting him do, even in an interview when he thee advice, if
he is to push you, "she said.

Ottilie bethought itself not a moment, she gave Charlotten the word
that they already had given himself.

But now floated Charlotten still Eduards threat against those of the soul,
that he only Ottilien could abdicate as long as they are not
separated by Charlotten.

It had Although since the time the circumstances changed so much,
it occurred which was so many that from the moment that word against
him abgedrungene the following events to be respected was repealed,
but they also wanted the remotest sense something not even dare to
make something that made him hurt could and should be mediators in
this case Eduards explore attitudes. mediators had since the death
of the child Charlotten frequently, although only at moments visited.

This accident, of his reunification of both husband was highly
unlikely, was forced on him, but always according to its sense of
hope and aspiring, he was happy now in silent about the decision
Ottilien.

He trusted the palliative, passing time, still thought the two
together husband and saw these movements as a passionate examinations
of marital love and fidelity to.

Charlotte had equal beginning of the Major Ottilien first statement in
writing, to implore him asked, then, to Eduards property that no further
steps happen that one quietly subdued that you wait and see whether
the mind of a beautiful child again produced. Even by the late events and
attitudes, she stated what is needed, and now the mediators was
admittedly difficult task of trying to modify the state Eduards prepare.
Meanwhile, however, knowing that what happened is more like it,
than that in a still to be done to accept Charlotten persuaded
that it was the best, Ottilien immediately after the House to send.

Therefore, when he was away, institutions made the trip. Ottilie packed
together, but Charlotte was well aware that they are neither
beautiful Köfferchen nor anything that is preparing them.

The girl was silent and let the silent child grant. The day of departure
came herbei; Charlotte car should Ottilien the first day to night in a
familiar neighborhood, the second to bring the pension; Nanny should
accompany and her servant to stay.

The passionate girl had just after the death of a child again
Ottilien found and hung back now on her as usual by nature and
inclination, so it seemed by entertaining talkativeness Missed the
past and bring back their beloved mistress totally dedicate to want.

Quite apart from that she was now about happiness, mitzureisen, foreign
places to see, because they have never been apart from her birthplace,
and ran from the castle into the village, to their parents,
relatives, in order to proclaim their luck and farewell to take.

Unfortunately she met while in the rooms of the maser immediately felt
sick and the consequences of infection. One does not wanted to
postpone the trip, Ottilie insisted that even they had already made
their way, they knew the hosts, where they should stop and the Coachman
led her from the castle, there was nothing to pay. Charlotte is not
opposed, but they rushed in thinking away from those environments, but
they still wanted the rooms, Ottilie had lived in the castle, again
for Eduards up, just as before the arrival of the captain was. The
hope of restoring an old luck, always flares up once again in the people,
and Charlotte had such hopes once again to be entitled, indeed obliged.
As an intermediary had to deal with the case Eduards to entertain he
found him alone, his head in the right hand leaned the arm on the
table gestemmt.

He seemed to suffer much. "plaguing your headaches again?" asked
intermediaries. "It tormented me," returned to that, "and yet I can
not hate because it reminds me of Ottilien.

Perhaps they suffer now, I think, on their left arm supported, and
probably suffers more than me. And why should I not take it as it?
This pain is healing me, I am, I can almost say desirable, because only
powerful, clear, vibrant floats me the picture of patience, by all its
other virtues accompanied, in the soul only in the suffering we
feel completely right all the great features that are needed in
order to endure it.

"As a friend in the meantime this grade was resigned, he is not fitting
with his back, which he, however, gradually, as the idea of the women
emerged, as he gradually matured to the intent was, historically
vortrug. Eduard said little against. From the little that he said
seemed to indicate that he will leave all those, his pain seemed to
present it against anything done to have. No sooner was he alone, so
he stood up and walked into the room, and resist. He felt his pain no
longer, he was quite beside herself busy. Even under the mediator, the
narrative imagination of the lovers are vividly acted. He saw
Ottilien alone or as good as alone wohlbekanntem way, in a traditional
inn, whose room he entered so often, he thought, he pondered, or
rather he thought he not appealed, he wished that he only wanted to.

He had it sehn, they speak. Why, why, what should it arise, of which
the speech could not be. He resisted not, he had to. The valet was taken
into confidence and investigated immediately day or hour, when Ottilie
would stay. The morning broke in; Eduard lined no unaccompanied to
horses then go to where Ottilie should stay.
Meanwhile the wind drove the flames steadily onward toward the
threatened mill. It was becoming too hot for any human being to stay
where Wilbur was, but the boy seemed to have lost the power of thought.
He chopped and chopped like a machine, not noticing, indeed, not being
able to notice that he was toiling there alone. It grew hotter and
hotter, his breath came in quick, short gasps, and each breath hurt his
lungs cruelly as he breathed the heat into them, but he worked on as in
a dream. Suddenly he felt his shoulder seized. It was the Supervisor,
who twisted him round and, pointing to the little bridge across the
river which spanned the stream just above the mill, he shouted:

"Run!"

But the boy's spirit was too exhausted to respond, though he got into a
dog trot and started for the bridge. Perilous though every second's
delay was, Merritt would not go ahead of the boy, though he could have
outdistanced his shambling and footsore pace two to one, but kept beside
him urging and threatening him alternately. The fire was on their heels,
but they were in the clearing. On the bridge one of the miners was
standing, riding the fastest horse in the party, holding, and with great
difficulty holding, in hand the horse of the Supervisor and the boy's
mare, Kit. Their very clothes were smoking as they reached the bridge.

Suddenly, a huge, twisted tree, full of sap, which stood on the edge of
the clearing, exploded with a crash like a cannon, and a flaming branch,
twenty feet in length, hurtled itself over their heads and fell full on
the further side of the bridge, barring their way. Upon the narrow
bridge the horses reared in a sudden panic and tried to bolt, but the
miner was an old-time cowboy, and he held them in hand. Merritt helped
the lad into the saddle before mounting himself. But even in that moment
the bridge began to smoke, and in less than a minute the whole structure
would be ablaze. The miner dug his heels, spurred, into the sides of his
horse, and the animal in fear and desperation leaped over the hissing
branch that lay upon the bridge. The Supervisor's horse and Kit followed
suit. As they landed on the other side, however, the head of the forest
reined in for a moment, and looking round, shouted suddenly:

"The mill!"

Wilbur pulled in Kit. So far as could be seen, none of the forest fire
had reached the mill; the sparks which had fallen upon the roof had gone
out harmlessly, so thoroughly had the place been soaked, yet through the
door of the mill the flames could be seen on the inside. At first Wilbur
thought it must be some kind of a reflection. But as they watched,
Peavey Jo rode up. He had crossed the bridge earlier, and was on the
safe side of the river watching his mill.

Suddenly, from out the door of the mill, outlined clearly against the
fire within, came an ungainly, shambling figure. The features could not
be seen, but the gait was unmistakable. He came running in an odd,
loose-jointed fashion toward the bridge. But just before he reached it
the now blazing timbers burned through and the bridge crashed into the
stream.

"It's Ben," muttered Wilbur confusedly; "I guess I've got to go back,"
and he headed Kit for the trail.

But the Supervisor leaned over and almost crushed the bones of the boy's
hand in his restraining grip.

"No need," he said, "he's all right now."

For as he spoke Wilbur saw Ben leap from the bank on the portion of the
burned bridge which had collapsed on his side of the stream. A few quick
strokes with the ax the boy was carrying and the timbers were free, and
crouched down upon them the boy was being carried down the stream. His
peril was extreme, for below as well as above the fire was sweeping down
on either side of the mill, and it was a question of minutes, almost of
seconds, whether the bridge-raft would pass down the river before the
fire struck or whether it would be caught.

"If the wind would only lull!" ejaculated the boy.

"I'll stay here till I see him burn," replied Peavey Jo grimly.

But Wilbur's wish met its fulfillment, for just for the space that one
could count ten the wind slackened, and every second meant a few yards
of safety to the half-witted lad. Though they were risking their lives
by staying, the three men waited, waited as still as they could for the
fear of their horses, until the boy disappeared round a curve of the
river. A muttered execration from Peavey Jo announced the lad's safety.
It angered the usually calm Supervisor.

"That ends you," he said. "You're licked, and you know it. Your mill's
gone, your timber's gone, and your credit's gone. Don't let me see you
on this forest again."

"You think I do no more, eh? Me, I forget? Non! By and by you remember
Peavey Jo. Now I ride down river. That boy, you see him? He see the sun
rise this morning. He no see the sun set. No. Nor ever any more. I
follow the river trail. I do not say good-by, like the old song," he
added, scowling his fury; "you wish yes! Non! I say _au revoir_, and
perhaps sooner than you t'ink."

He wheeled and turned down the river. The Supervisor turned to the
miner.

"It's not my business to stop him," he said, "and the boy's got the
start. He can't reach there before the fire does, now."

Then, as though regretting the lull, the wind shrieked with a new and
more vindictive fury, as though it saw its vengeance before it. Almost
at a breath it seemed the whole body of flame appeared to lift itself to
the skies and then fall like a devouring fury upon the forest on the
hither side of the river below, whither Peavey Jo had ridden.

In the distance the two men heard a horse scream, and they knew. But
Wilbur did not hear.

They had waited almost too long, for the wind, rising to its greatest
height, had carried the fire above them almost to the edge of the river,
and now there was no question about its crossing. Further delay meant to
be hemmed in by a ring of fire. With a shout the miner slackened the
reins and his horse leaped into a gallop, after him Merritt, and the boy
close behind. Wilbur had ridden fast before, but never had he known
such speed as now. The trail was clear before them to the top of the
ridge, the fire was behind, and the wind was hurling masses of flames
about them on every side. The horses fled with the speed of fear, and
the Supervisor drew a breath of relief as they crossed a small ridge
below the greater ridge whither they were bound.

Once a curl of flame licked clear over their heads and ignited a tree in
front of them, but they were past it again before it caught fair hold.
The boy could feel Kit's flanks heaving as she drew her breath hard, and
with the last instinct of safety he threw away everything that he
carried, even the fire-fighting tools being released. Only another mile,
but the grade was fearfully steep, the steeper the harder for the horses
but the better for the fire. Kit stumbled. A little less than a mile
left! He knew she could not do it. The mare had been kept astretch all
night, and her heart was breaking under the strain. Any second she might
fall.

The trail curved. And round the curve, with three horses saddled and
waiting, sat the old Ranger, facing the onrush of the fire as
imperturbably as though his own life were in no way involved. The
miner's horse was freshest and he reached the group first. As he did so,
he swung out of his saddle, was on one of the three and off. The
riderless horse, freed from the burden, followed up the trail. Merritt
and Wilbur reached almost at the same time.

"I reckon," drawled Rifle-Eye, "that's a pretty close call."

"He's done," said the Supervisor, ignoring the remark. "Toss him up."

With a speed that seemed almost incredible to any one accustomed to his
leisurely movements, the old Ranger dismounted, picked Wilbur bodily out
of the saddle, set him on one of the fresh animals, freed Kit, mounted
himself, and was off in less than thirty seconds. For the first half
mile it was touch and go, for the trail was steep and even the three
fresh horses found the pace terrific. But little by little the timber
thinned and the fire gained less hold. Then, with a burst they came into
a clearing along the top of the ridge. The crest was black with workers,
over two hundred men were there, and on every side was to be heard the
sound of trees crashing to the ground, most of them by dynamite.

Where the head of the trail reached the crest stood the doctor and his
wife, the "little white lady" trembling with excitement as she watched
the fearful race from the jaws of a fiery death. The doctor plucked
Wilbur from his saddle as the horse rushed by him. The boy's senses were
reeling, but before he sank into insensibility from fatigue he heard
Merritt say:

"Loyle, when you're a Ranger next year, I want you on my forest."


THE END


[Illustration: "KEEP IT FROM SPREADING BOYS!"

_Photography by U. S. Forest Service._]


[Illustration: "GET BUSY NOW, WHEN IT BREAKS INTO THE OPEN!"

_Photography by U. S. Forest Service._]


_U. S. SERVICE SERIES_

By FRANCIS ROLT-WHEELER

Many illustrations from photographs taken in work for U. S.
Government ^Large 12mo ^Cloth ^$1.50 per volume

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOY WITH THE U. S. SURVEY

This story describes the thrilling adventures of members of the U. S.
Geological Survey, graphically woven into a stirring narrative that both
pleases and instructs. The author enjoys an intimate acquaintance with
the chiefs of the various bureaus in Washington, and is able to obtain
at first hand the material for his books.

     "There is abundant charm and vigor in the narrative which is sure
     to please the boy readers and will do much toward stimulating their
     patriotism."--_Chicago News_.


THE BOY WITH THE U. S. FORESTERS

This life of a typical boy is followed in all its adventurous
detail--the mighty representative of our country's government, though
young in years--a youthful monarch in a vast domain of forest. Replete
with information, alive with adventure, and inciting patriotism at every
step.

     "It is a fascinating romance of real life in our country, and will
     prove a great pleasure and inspiration to the boys who read
     it."--_The Continent, Chicago_.


THE BOY WITH THE U. S. CENSUS

The taking of the census frequently involves hardship and peril,
requiring arduous journeys by dog-team in the frozen north and by launch
in the snake-haunted and alligator-filled Everglades of Florida, while
the enumerator whose work lies among the dangerous criminal classes of
the greater cities must take his life in his own hands.

     "Every young man should read this story, thereby getting a clear
     conception of conditions as they exist to-day, for such knowledge
     will have a clean, invigorating and healthy influence on the young
     growing and thinking mind."--_Boston Globe_.


THE BOY WITH THE U. S. FISHERIES

[Illustration: The Boy With the U. S. Fisheries]

The book does not lack thrilling scenes. The far Aleutian Islands have
witnessed more desperate sea-fighting than has occurred elsewhere since
the days of the Spanish Buccaneers, and pirate craft, which the U. S.
Fisheries must watch, rifle in hand, are prowling in the Behring Sea
to-day. The fish-farms of the United States are as interesting as they
are immense in their scope.

     "One of the best books for boys of all ages, so attractively
     written and illustrated as to fascinate the reader into staying up
     until all hours to finish it."--_Philadelphia Despatch_.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO., BOSTON


HANDICRAFT FOR HANDY BOYS

Practical Plans for Work and Play with Many Ideas for Earning Money

By A. NEELY HALL

Author of "The Boy Craftsman"

With Nearly 600 Illustrations and Working-drawings by the Author and
Norman P. Hall ^8vo ^Cloth ^Net, $2.00 ^Postpaid, $2.25

[Illustration: Handi-Craft for Handy Boys]

This book is intended for boys who want the latest ideas for making
things, practical plans for earning money, up-to-date suggestions for
games and sports, and novelties for home and school entertainments.

The author has planned the suggestions on an economical basis, providing
for the use of the things at hand, and many of the things which can be
bought cheaply. Mr. Hall's books have won the confidence of parents, who
realize that in giving them to their boys they are providing wholesome
occupations which will encourage self-reliance and resourcefulness, and
discourage tendencies to be extravagant.

Outdoor and indoor pastimes have been given equal attention, and much of
the work is closely allied to the studies of the modern grammar and high
schools, as will be seen by a glance at the following list of subjects,
which are only a few among those discussed in the 500 pages of text:

     MANUAL TRAINING; EASILY-MADE FURNITURE; FITTING UP A BOY'S ROOM;
     HOME-MADE GYMNASIUM APPARATUS; A BOY'S WIRELESS TELEGRAPH OUTFIT;
     COASTERS AND BOB-SLEDS; MODEL AEROPLANES; PUSHMOBILES AND OTHER
     HOME-MADE WAGONS; A CASTLE CLUBHOUSE AND HOME-MADE ARMOR.

Modern ingenious work such as the above cannot fail to develop
mechanical ability in a boy, and this book will get right next to his
heart.

     "The book is a treasure house for boys who like to work with tools
     and have a purpose in their working."--_Springfield Union_.

     "It is a capital book for boys since it encourages them in
     wholesome, useful occupation, encourages self-reliance and
     resourcefulness and at the same time discourages
     extravagance."--_Brooklyn Times_.

     "It is all in this book, and if anything has got away from the
     author we do not know what it is."--_Buffalo News_.

       *       *       *       *       *

_For sale by all booksellers, or sent on receipt of postpaid price by
the publishers_

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO., Boston


THE BOY CRAFTSMAN

Practical and Profitable Ideas for a Boy's Leisure Hours

By A. NEELY HALL

Illustrated with over 400 diagrams and working drawings ^8vo ^Price,
net, $1.60 ^Postpaid, $1.82

[Illustration: The Boy Craftsman]

Every real boy wishes to design and make things, but the questions of
materials and tools are often hard to get around. Nearly all books on
the subject call for a greater outlay of money than is within the means
of many boys, or their parents wish to expend in such ways. In this book
a number of chapters give suggestions for carrying on a small business
that will bring a boy in money with which to buy tools and materials
necessary for making apparatus and articles described in other chapters,
while the ideas are so practical that many an industrious boy can learn
what he is best fitted for in his life work. No work of its class is so
completely up-to-date or so worthy in point of thoroughness and
avoidance of danger. The drawings are profuse and excellent, and every
feature of the book is first-class. It tells how to make a boy's
workshop, how to handle tools, and what can be made with them; how to
start a printing shop and conduct an amateur newspaper, how to make
photographs, build a log cabin, a canvas canoe, a gymnasium, a miniature
theatre, and many other things dear to the soul of youth.

     We cannot imagine a more delightful present for a boy than this
     book.--_Churchman, N.Y._

     Every boy should have this book. It's a practical book--it gets
     right next to the boy's heart and stays there. He will have it near
     him all the time, and on every page there is a lesson or something
     that will stand the boy in good need. Beyond a doubt in its line
     this is one of the cleverest books on the market.--_Providence
     News_.

     If a boy has any sort of a mechanical turn of mind, his parents
     should see that he has this book.--_Boston Journal_.

     This is a book that will do boys good.--_Buffalo Express_.

     The boy who will not find this book a mine of joy and profit must
     be queerly constituted.--_Pittsburgh Gazette_.

     Will be a delight to the boy mechanic.--_Watchman, Boston_.

     An admirable book to give a boy.--_Newark News_.

     This Book is the best yet offered for its large number of practical
     and profitable ideas.--_Milwaukee Free Press_.

     Parents ought to know of this book.--_New York Globe_.

       *       *       *       *       *

For sale by all booksellers or sent postpaid on receipt of price by the
publishers,

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO., BOSTON



MR. It was the sight, the position he could not bear Ottilien.

It looked just fine, as they would fall in the knees when he insisted.

Despairing He rushed out the door and sent the landlady to the
lonely.

He went to the vestibule to and down.

It had become night, the room remained silent.

Finally the hostess came out and pulled the keys from.

The good wife was touched, was embarrassed, she knew not what they should
do. Last in leaving they gave the key Edward, who rejected him.
This is done by a good and interesting story of
some live boys, whose experiences will hold the attention of every one.
The leading spirit is pictured with a healthy boy's human qualities to
be trained, and impulses to be overcome. A companionable and sensible
father aids him judiciously, and leaves success to be worked out on
natural lines. All the stage effects of the cheaper kinds of boys' books
are blissfully absent; there are no villains plotting against the
upright, no nations saved by the precocious intelligence of youth, and
no impossible adventure or accomplishment--just the problems before
average boys, and that can be solved as these boys solve them if "Mr.
The rest think they are together, and then immediately with a determination
of what the moment calls for. Ottilien room is set up again quickly.
Eduard has his offense until the final paper, as he left.

     The dreie appear again gegeneinader to find, but Ottilie continues
     to remain silent, and Edward can not, as his wife to ask for
patience, which he himself seems to be missing.

     Charlotte sends messengers to intermediaries and to the Major.
     That was not encountered, this comes. against him Eduard pours his
heart out, he admits he every smallest circumstance, and so Charlotte
learns what meets what the situation is changing so weird, what
excited the minds.

     
     Y. Press_.

       *       *       *       *       *

_For sale by all booksellers or sent on receipt of postpaid price by the
publishers_

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO., BOSTON