E-text prepared by Al Haines


LONDON RIVER

by

H. M. TOMLINSON

Garden City, New York
Garden City Publishing Co., Inc
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.

1921


TO MY MOTHER

AND TO THE MEMORY OF MY FATHER


Contents

    I  THE FORESHORE
   II  A MIDNIGHT VOYAGE
  III  A SHIPPING PARISH
   IV  THE "HEART'S DESIRE"
    V  THE MASTER
   VI  THE SHIP-RUNNERS
  VII  NOT IN THE ALMANAC
 VIII  THE ILLUSION
   IX  IN A COFFEE-SHOP
    X  OFF-SHORE
   XI  AN OLD LLOYD'S REGISTER


I. The Foreshore

It begins on the north side of the City, at Poverty Corner.  It begins
imperceptibly, and very likely is no more than what a native knows is
there.  It does not look like a foreshore.  It looks like another of
the byways of the capital.  There is nothing to distinguish it from the
rest of Fenchurch Street.  You will not find it in the Directory, for
its name is only a familiar bearing used by seamen among themselves.
If a wayfarer came upon it from the west, he might stop to light a pipe
(as well there as anywhere) and pass on, guessing nothing of what it is
and of its memories.  And why should he?  London is built of such old
shadows; and while we are here casting our own there is not much time
to turn and question what they fall upon.  Following her was only the
third row for a long uplift reduced the three others still showed the
full eight surveys of the ancient epic, once alliterierten long
line and only fell in the first two lines, which as a Aufgesang were
to the last cut off and the two last census was the rhyme, the only
sound was apparently because of the late-sounding rhyme, only a
census, the second is unstressed Sylbe. These two surveys were supporting
rhymes: Tin: sing, Vliegen: beltless, Kriemhild: wild, Uoten: guoten.
In the early days of the old songs, the most popular sites on the
fixed keeping in mind liability, the old structure will receive the
longest, so in the first two stanzas of the song from Kriemhild's
dream, then verse 1362, where a song and an adventure begins.

Dô Etzel sine the message Zuo rine sand, dô vlugen disiu mar ze
agricultural land. No further 1653, the beginning of the 16th
Lachmannschen song: the vür were emphasized with the m'ærèn, the
DAZ Niblungen the Zuo Hiunen would finally No. 1571, where after the
insertion of long disturbing Gelfrat and Else Lachmannsche the fourth
song again: the wegemüeden Dô rúowè genâmèn si unde the country closer
to nu quam, etc. At other places like the old structure by
the beauty of the verse have been protected, as in the two successive
2132 and 2133rd St. The writer of the manuscript A, which no longer
make sense for the old metric had as well as two-blunt words in the
Cäsur put the two surveys taken, and the eighth Halbzeile often only
three surveys giebt, also took on four returns in the second and fourth
Halbzeile kick in and like the first verse, where he they could not
ignore, he believed the initial transformation to what he otherwise
would not be needed in the following verse, he had the seemingly-sounding
rhymes, because here the Halbzeilen also referred to three surveys
were read. Through this reorganization, but the old Final geriethen
rhymes in the Cäsur: It troumde Kriemhild in the virtues phlac si si
like a wild valk tac riding elevators, a proof that the funds rhymes
writer of this text was not offensive, whereas Lachmann Kriemhilte
wild and wrote, " to the slip inside a rhyme to avoid. " What has' virtues
in the si phlac 'should be called is not easy to say and probably
should make the high-ir in the old song eren described as _in disen_
height Eren it was probably only when the twelve stanzas of a theater-like
slip initiation previously have been placed. The fact that many only
to raise a long rhyming lines of the four surveys Aufgesangs bear, I in
my script: _The Nibelungen strophe and its Ursprung_, Bonn 1858, to
which I refer here ever need more detail, and the attentive reader
will in the current edition numerous evidence is not overlooked,
the most striking is that even Additional stanzas as in C after
1662 when the dull rhyme Aufgesang four surveys show that they are
undoubtedly old and are inserted at a time where you still four
surveys at these places expected.

It must not be mistaken that we the Nibelungen strophe first in _Liedern_
opposes, so that it displays a lyrical breakdown. What first attacked
the latter, it would be if the whole structure was eliminated, and
therefore also the fourth line as in the late Hildebrandston, only three
would uplift the stanza into two equal halves fall apart. Strophic
treatment of the long line but we find in the Edda, So even before
the rhyme at the office of alliteration occurs. The use of songs, but
should not be alienating, because these ancient songs, such as the
so-called Kürnbergschen show yet epic inputs, they belong to a time where
the song just the maternal Schooß the epic entwunden had a question,
she, like me the Nibelungenstr. 82 had more detail, initially in
epic forms, yes removes its contents, such as the parables of the hawks,
the epic. If the Nibelungen strophe was not originally lyrical, or epic
folk song of their early usurps had, so could anyone Singers its use and
the subsequent use of the Minne singers, each song its own level and
own way to devote their borrowing was illegal then, could they still
do not apply. This objection who have already made themselves the
Nibelungen strophe, as in the Paris manuscript first appears, an
inventor discovered Kürnberg want to have, which they then überhöfischer
Mildenberg even the whole Nibelungenlied gift to make a modern poet
of our thousand-year-old Nationalepos. They put forward but this
objection: if the Nibelungen strophe, without reason they call Kürnbergs
way, an old folk ways been other poets would not have proceeded to apply
them, they had not invented variations of this verse, they are not
transformed with small modifications: "because a small difference,"
Bartsch says, "because just needed to be able to verse form alongside
an already existing as to appear to be new."

Thus would be the verse, whose initial structure we have just
discussed, from the dream Kürnberg so transformed that they are soon
to keep the original outline, soon to be back in the second
Vershälften of Aufgesangs only three returns, or even in the first
row of the four Aufgesangs in the second three were taken, and the poets
of the Wolf Dietrich and already the writer of the Nibelung A manuscript
would have transformed so that it was allowed, the eighth Halbzeile soon
three or four surveys soon to give. But really had these and other
transformations of the Nibelungen strophe the reason that you do not
"sounds thief" wanted to read, so yes müste you believe the alleged
Kürnberg would have feared to be the thief to be through the application
of selbsterfundenen verse, since we also with him a variation
on the same place, and after beard Chen's own statement (Deutsche
Lieder poet p. 1), occupied by two stanzas variation. For us, we serve
as the basis of both yield the Nibelungenlied, in addition to the
Latin version of the writer Konrad, whose influence is not geläugnet
can be a collection of folk songs, he shared in the old, but a gradual
transformations of people assume their Näther here and there
clearly are, we lack examples of the unmodified application of the
Nibelungen strophe at various poets not. The only difference is hervorthut
is in the same songs the unequal number of surveys in the lines of
Aufgesangs, and the freedom with omission of the reduction to
two surveys to rhyme, which is reflected in the two rows of the
Abgesang may never happen. These differences are insignificant but
because the entire verse from Sangzeilen eight surveys hervorgebildet
has already, as they still alliterierten to uplift could be reduced.
Cf. Nibelungen strophe § .9. If the poet of the Nibelungenlied old epic
songs are not woven, it is only from the diverse geschöpft Sage, and
the songs that he has about that interrupts in recasting a new level,
why he called his name does not why he joined modest resources behind
its back? but because he adopted such a major poet would have been
as tungsten. Will you forget you have to Kürnberg as the poet of
the Nibelungen ausruft that the poems of volksmäßigen Sagekreises is
peculiar, in contrast to the vaccinated Veldeke of courtly poetry, the
author may not have? Who will be soon for the poet of the Gudrun issue
that has not once in all Theilen songs based on who is the great
rose garden, the Ortnit the Wolf Dietrich, the Alphart sealed, and
who is the German Walther song, from the corner Harte drew?

Should it proceed with the same generosity, thus one of the
Nibelungenlied by Kürnberg away, it will surely find the name that
we are just empty Schälle. Spervogel Could not have sealed the Gudrun?
- Who has not been for the poet of the Nibelungenlied spent? Heinrich
von Ofterdingen from which I "Wartburtkrieg" had proved that he is by
no means a fabulous person was by the genuine verses of Räthselspiels
has written, the second portion of this course a long time unenträthselten
poem form, then his guardian, however, fabulous Klingsor von Unger
country, but not from Unger country, but from the Parzival came, Konrad
von Würzburg, Rudolf von Ems, for the two Hohenemser manuscripts
could be used, Walther von der Vogelweide, and finally, perhaps
again forged Kürnberg for whose existence as a poet or composer we
only weak certificate have a song. Johannes von Müller Rieth at a Swiss
Eschenbach of Unspunnen; why nobody on the baierischen tungsten,
among all the courtly poets of the local legends circles was most
familiar, which his brand of peace Schottenring his Hüteger, and his
Hernant Herlinde and other heroes of the extracted Nordseesage whose
rhyme and German-language epic staining shows the alliteration on the
German Welsh naming anwandte who so often on the Heldensage twice,
and even to individual verses of the song Nibelungs (1408 5-8 and
1462) alludes, and perhaps even really the hand of the poem has just
certainly not the last hand, because these merzte some peculiar tungsten
rhymes carefully. Should I be on the ABC's of manuscripts to explain,
so I confess a preference, although the writer of this short
manuscript extremely discounts, so he gave his old and good eve
faithfully again without changes other than his, a younger verrathenden
time metric due to Irrthümer allowed no more than some weak
additional stanzas like St. 3 on his account, while C, on the oldest and
most careful handwriting dormant, and also by an excellent presentation
of the starting volksmäßigen courtly poem a fine finish to give
investigated. But many changes are real improvements in C, like the
one is that we have the whole poem now called _Nibelungenlied_, as the
name of the _Nibelunge nôt_ only on the second portion could be obtained,
especially as the Burgundians in the first Theil yet Nibelungen hot.
Of the stanzas, C alone, is a real Theil and old workers and the transfer
is already in its submission were made: in 1518 St. Wolfram seems
already supposed to be. Others are very weak and, by St. 2305, I could
decide not to because they told me the whole poem would verleidet.
You may, however, so you do not miss, here are, but without translation,
which I do not feel worthy. H. 2428. He wist want diu Mar, sine Liez
in niht recover. Möhte as a untriuwe always Sterker wesen? He vorhte
as si in Hete sînen lip genomen, DAZ Danne si ir bruoder Liese home
komen ze lande. Hagens character as we know, he would have his master,
like life and liberty by their own death, bought, and here he showed
the hoard not, because he feared Gunther would be alone in the home to
be dismissed!

B contains the stanzas are not weak, which A and C add lacks but also
the true and good, which alone has received C; for those who own B
hinzuthut, we must be grateful to him. The careful writer of this
series, preceding St. Galler handwriting fills like the cuts and avoid
shortened forms. Otherwise it is very common version, the text of which
is therefore called the _gemeinen_ first A and next to it is often
corrected. * * * * A historical basis of the poem has been in the
Thatsache want to find that around the year 437 of the Burgundian
king Gundicarius with his nation of the Huns suffered a crushing
defeat. It also cites the fact that the lex Burgundionum three Burgundian
kings, Godomer, Gislahar and Gundahar as it seems as sons Gibicas
called, in which one Gernot, Gunther Giselher and, after the
Heldensage the sons Gibichs (in the states of the Nibelungen Father
Dankrat), wants to find again. Cf. W. Grimm, Deutsche Heldensage, 2nd
edition 1867 p. 12 But when the historical relations in the saga
occurred find, we do not know: they occasionally penetrated into the
mythical Heldensage originally, but were also well out again, as we
assume an example Otacher have of a historical hero in the mythical
song Hildebrand Sibich had ousted him but later re-soft pattern.
Some Thatsachen, history and common Heldensage, you can just as well
from the saga in the history of stocky, eg what Jornandes of Ermenrich
brothers and Swanhild reports Grimm Heldensage S.2. That Worms in songs
as the seat of the kings of Burgundy seems you have a history of
contradictory evidence, by real later in the Rotten (Rhodanus)
Burgundy drawn first in the Middle had lived. Another question is whether
Diess has led to the scene of the Worms saga to make. A mythical
reference that already hangs in the name of this ancient city, and Diess
factors could have taught the Heldensage. We know he was once Borbetomagus.
"Since field magus means" it was already Rheinland 76, "said Diess
is not the name of the city as the Gaus, which we also called Worms
field, as Maifeld and Maiengau change. In _Borbet_ to us for the name
of the city remains, the initial b later to become w, "but we will soon
see how w and b dialect change. Take it for Worbet however, we see
easily documented many certified name of one of the tria fata,
which the German and Celtic beliefs in common, we (Germans) sisters,
the mothers or Romanised Celts were called matrons, in detail, I
have to guide them to the mythology section. 103 traded.

In the southern and northwestern Germany, in our Rhineland return these
countless sisters often again: they will now have to Theil with modified
names as revered saint: in Cologne Diöcese with the Archbishop Pilgrim
(not Passau) under the names of the three Christian Cardinaltugenden
Spes, Fides, Caritas, in Trierischer Born to Hoven to Auw different;
in southern Germany in remote country Theilen, Tyrol, Worms and Strasbourg,
in Oberbaiern and Niederbaiern Counties are under constant, only
slightly different name, based on _Einbett_, _Wilbett_ back and let
_Warbett_. The common _-bett_ reverses otherwise happy again, where
the three sisters now under other names will be revered, and even in
the Cologne Diöcese is the example in the case Hoven bed, so that even
our name hieher includes Beethoven's wishes. After tanks, Baierische
say they are venerated as 1 S. Anbetta, p. Gwerbetta, p. Villbetta
to Meransen in Tyrol, Panzer I, p. 5 2 P. Ainbett, p. Wolbett, p.
Vilbett to Schlehdorf in Oberbaiern. P. 23 3. P. Ainpet, p.
Gberpet, p. Firpet to Leutstetten in Oberbaiern. 31. 4. P. P. Einbeth,
p. Warbeth, p. Wilbeth sign to turn into Niederbaiern. 69. 5. P. P.
Einbede , p. Warbede, p. Villebede to Worms. 206. 6. P. P. Einbetta, p.
Worbetta, p. Wilbetta in Strasbourg. 208th P. The last name of the
form under which the middle sister appears Worbetta, can be used to
Statement by the old name Borbetomagus used. We looked at 3 that in S.
Gberpet b instead of w have been converted to the documentary we
Worbetta names in the same way that really _Barbeth_ encountered
in tank 69, so we have Borbetta, precisely the name form that we
require. From Borbet, the middle of the three swords, therefore Worms
(Borbetomagus) hot, and it's close, similar to the old name of the
city of Metz, Civitas Mediomatricorum to hypothesis, from the middle of
three sisters, The mothers were called the Celts, it also has the
name.

This is the powerful medium of dreie, so the actual deity, whose sisters
just copied. This is also in Upsala Thór as the most powerful in
the middle between Wodan and Fricco, "ita ut potentissimus," says Adam
of Bremen, "in medio solium habeat Triclinio; Hince et inde locum
possident Wodan et Fricco. Gr. Myth. 102nd Uhland Schriften VI, 176
Since we want these, not coincidentally in all six messages in the
middle stand, with 61 tanks, 275, 297 also Held, yes Rachel (the
avenging Hel) Armored 18, 83, 372 referred to find, So yields are
that they Hel , the hidden goddess is the goddess of the underworld
as well as death, life is donating, by all life out of it and
back into her mother's Schooß returns. It's true that these three sisters
who we Norne, German Parcae, consideration must in tank 53 _Hailräthinnen_
called, because the fates of human beriethen, so that they not only
resist the plague was called, tanks 23, 70, 110, but also for births
Hülfe granted (tank 362), such as pregnant women even when the Old
triformis called the diva, Hor III, 22 Their names are equipped with
bed together, as we also giant beds, etc. of Brunhildebette know what I
Handb the Myth. 368 on the pagan altar (Piot goth. Biuds or petti goth.
Badi lectisternium) have interpreted the call in the Walde (Lucus)
was that they were once hallowed, and now the municipality of them
should be presented.

Taking this second portion of the composition, bed, than to their temple
(courtyard) having regard, it explains the first single from Sylbe in
Agin, Egin terrors, as well Einhart Eginhart states. She is the goddess
of death, the dark side of Hel. Friendly is the third name Wilbett
the submissive, desire and determination granting the clearance side
of the hidden goddess. Not so obvious is the middle name, Warbett
or Gwerbett from strife and contention to explain, but he has opposed
in the inner essence of the goddess, who will soon pay, punitive soon
occurs, may be paid. The names of the German language to interpret,
Caesar allowed Announcement (BG II 51) on the Vangionen in Ariovist
army, which Tacitus (ipsam Rheni ripam haud Dubi Germanorum populi colunt,
Vangiones, Triboci, nemet. Germ. 28) and Pliny IV , 17 agrees. They
lived, a German people, in the Celtic land, so it can not be noticed
if the name of its capital Borbetomagus a vox hybrida, because we as a
magus, a Celtic word know. But we see, as I have remarked Handb 368,
such as the erroneous acceptance of our Rheinischer Alterthumsforscher
on Matronenculte is that all these deities of celtischen not belonged
to the Germanic languages, whereas Grimm at the opportunity matronis
arvagastiabus and dedicated andrustehiabus Votivsteine proceedings.
Whether the names Kriemhild and Brunhild, which we in the Nibelungen
Worms can be found on the two opposite sides of the underworld goddess
to suggest that, I dare not to choose, certainly is that a side-Hilde
form of Hel is: it is for hilende how spilde (Walther 45, 38) for spilende,
and refers to the concealed and conceal, and hide hidden goddess. When
Kriemhild in the first Sylbe not GRIMA, larva, helmet, armor, but
Grimm, Wuthe, atrocitas to interpret, as in the Edda is not her, but her
mother says Grimhild would like it to the dark side of the goddess
gemahnen although in the first Theil still hold beatify had appeared
only in the second as her beloved husband Rächerin terrible occurs.
Small printing error, some missing CIRCUMFLEX some dô dâ uu asks for
you to improve. Bonn in June 1868. KS preface to the first edition
of the translation. Already some years ago, when I sang the song of
the Nibelungen first met with amazement, and the effects of exercise,
the beautiful poem on my Gemüth years, created in me a desire that
these powerful pure tones in neuhochdeutscher Language poets echo
can be heard.

All the more I wondered at the diligence, which men like Voss,
Schlegel, Tieck uA foreign poets works devoted, so in the care, which
even a small German poems to Theil was that none of our poets, the
Nibelungenlied equal attention paid tribute. For Tieck had previously
announced his intention of a transfer of it to mature and That
Uebersetzungen of philologists, such as by the Hagen and Büsching,
met the requirements are not artistic. Hagensche The name is the
language of the original for the purpose of understanding too close, and
the Büschingsche is almost only a prosaic with Endreimen maintained.
Long awaited, therefore, I failed, if not one of our celebrated
singers, of which I particularly Uhland, Rückert and Gustav Schwab
to such a company seemed to invoke that violates the poem and tearing
through the existing arrangements only increased indifference to the
wider audience will control. Let it therefore judge the art, if
they can, apologies, that a less illustrious disciples of the arts,
whose name is critical to their chairs hardly yell his small forces
in a work has tried almost insurmountable difficulties which so
many tried and capable men to be discouraged seems to have.

They
change.  They are like those uncanny folk of the fables.  At night,
wonderfully, they become something else, take another form, which has
never been more than glimpsed, and another character, so fabulous and
secret that it will support the tales of the wildest romanticist, who
rightly feels that if such yarns were told of 'Frisco or Timbuctoo they
might get found out.  Was this the church?  Three Chinamen were
disputing by its gate.  Perhaps they were in disagreement as to where
the church would be in daylight.

At a corner where the broad main channel of electric light ended, and
perplexity began, a policeman stood, and directed me into chaos.
"Anywhere," he explained, "anywhere down there will do."  I saw a
narrow alley in the darkness, which had one gas lamp and many cobbled
stones.  At the bottom of the lane were three iron posts.  Beyond the
posts a bracket lamp showed a brick wall, and in the wall was an arch
so full of gloom that it seemed impassable, except to a steady draught
of cold air that might have been the midnight itself entering Limehouse
from its own place.  At the far end of that opening in the wall was
nothing.  I stood on an invisible wooden platform and looked into
nothing with no belief that a voyage could begin from there.  Before me
then should have been the Thames, at the top of the flood tide.  It was
not seen.  There was only a black void dividing some clusters of
brilliant but remote and diminished lights.  There were odd stars which
detached themselves from the fixed clusters, and moved in the void,
sounding the profundity of the chasm beneath them with lines of
trembling fire.  Such a wandering comet drifted near where I stood on
the verge of nothing, and then it was plain that its trail of quivering
light did not sound, but floated and undulated on a travelling
road--that chasm before me was black because it was filled with fluid
night.  Night, I discovered suddenly, was in irresistible movement.  It
was swift and heavy.  It was unconfined.  It was welling higher to
douse our feeble glims and to founder London, built of shadows on its
boundary.  It moved with frightful quietness.  It seemed confident of
its power.  It swirled and eddied by the piles of the wharf, and there
it found a voice, though that was muffled; yet now and then it broke
into levity for a moment, as at some shrouded and alien jest.

There were sounds which reached me at last from the opposite shore,
faint with distance and terror.  The warning from an unseen steamer
going out was as if a soul, crossing this Styx, now knew all.  There is
no London on the Thames, after sundown.  Most of us know very little of
the River by day.  It might then be no more native to our capital than
the Orientals who stand under the Limehouse gas lamps at night.  It
surprises us.  We turn and look at it from our seat in a tram, and
watch a barge going down on the ebb--it luckily misses the piers of
Blackfriars Bridge--as if a door had unexpectedly opened on a mystery,
revealing another world in London, and another sort of life than ours.
It is as uncanny as if we had sensed another dimension of space.  The
tram gets among the buildings again, and we are reassured by the
confined and arid life we know.  But what a light and width had that
surprising world where we saw a barge drifting as leisurely as though
the narrow limits which we call reality were there unknown!

But after dark there is not only no River, when you stand where by day
is its foreshore; there is no London.  Then, looking out from
Limehouse, you might be the only surviving memory of a city that has
vanished.  You might be solitary among the unsubstantial shades, for
about you are only comets passing through space, and inscrutable
shapes; your neighbours are Cassiopeia and the Great Bear.

But where was our barge, the _Lizzie_?  I became aware abruptly of the
skipper of this ship for our midnight voyage among the stars.  He had
his coat-collar raised.  The _Lizzie_, he said, was now free of the
mud, and he was going to push off.  Sitting on a bollard, and pulling
out his tobacco-pouch, he said he hadn't had her out before.  Sorry
he'd got to do it now.  She was a bitch.  She bucked her other man
overboard three days ago.  They hadn't found him yet.  They found her
down by Gallions Reach.  Jack Jones was the other chap.  Old Rarzo they
called him.  Took more than a little to give him that colour.  But he
was All Right.  They were going to give a benefit concert for his wife
and kids.  Jack's brother was going to sing; good as Harry Lauder, he
is.

Below us a swirl of water broke into mirth, instantly suppressed.  We
could see the _Lizzie_ now.  The ripples slipped round her to the tune
of they-'avn't-found-'im-yet, they-'avn't-found-'im-yet-they 'avn't.
The skipper and crew rose, fumbling at his feet for a rope.  There did
not seem to be much of the _Lizzie_.  She was but a little raft to
drift out on those tides which move among the stars.  "Now's your
chance," said her crew, and I took it, on all fours.  The last remnant
of London was then pushed from us with a pole.  We were launched on
night, which had begun its ebb towards morning.

The punt sidled away obliquely for mid-stream.  I stood at one end of
it.  The figure of Charon could be seen at the other, of long
acquaintance with this passage, using his sweep with the indifference
of habitude.  Perhaps it was not Charon.  Yet there was some
obstruction to the belief that we were bound for no more than the
steamer _Aldebaran_, anchored in Bugsby's Reach.  From the low deck of
the barge it was surprising that the River, whose name was Night, was
content with the height to which it had risen.  Perhaps it was taking
its time.  It might soon receive an influx from space, rise then in a
silent upheaval, and those low shadows that were London, even now half
foundered, would at once go.  This darkness was an irresponsible power.
It was the same flood which had sunk Knossos and Memphis.  It was
tranquil, indifferent, knowing us not, reckoning us all one with the
Sumerians.  They were below it.  It had risen above them.  Now the time
had come when it was laving the base of London.

The crew cried out to us that over there was the entrance to the West
India Dock.  We knew that place in another life.  But should Charon
joke with us?  We saw only chaos, in which the beams from a reputed
city glimmered without purpose.

The shadow of the master of our black barge pulled at his sweep with a
slow confidence that was fearful amid what was sightless and unknown.
His pipe glowed, as with the profanity of an immortal to whom eternity
and infinity are of the usual significance.  Then a red and green eye
appeared astern, and there was a steady throbbing as if some monster
were in pursuit of us.  A tug shaped near us, drew level, and exposed
with its fires, as it went ahead, a radiant _Lizzie_ on an area of
water that leaped in red flames.  * * * * * Consecration to Friedrich
Baron de la Motte Fouque. Ursitz From the German peoples, from time
Heide also hear us a customer of Lieb and heroes dispute; She lives
in two figures in German tribes continued And it is our people
urerster screen and Hort.

The A, Werther singer, your singing has transfigured, from your loyal
and nourish the spirit durchglühet: Well lit in Walhalla, the
beigesellt Asen, Sigurd the Schlangentödter, the noble hero of the
north. The Andre brings a disciple to thank you for that one song,
the your dignity, by Andre Sangkunst although it is rooted in the bottom
of the rigid Heide night, from mild Christians foliage covered the sky.
Wär your pious fidelity, never of the Arg gewust, your heart full force
and sweetness in every German breast, The name flöge again to the
star of the wall Siegfrieds Drachentödters of Nibelungen Land. _Bonn_,
4 November 1826. * * * * * _An Karl Simrock._ Dankesgruß for Zueignung
the Nibelungenlied. Who dares to sing songs in the German poet Wake
Forest usually multiple tones, the rings he wiederhallt.

But the word altgute saying: "It schallt from the forest's How hineinschallt
into the forest, "is not always sufficient. Some has already sung in
true love and lust, And Schmähruf penetrated zerstachelnd him
the opposite breast: Because gilts because admittedly Sanglust if
you continue to be singing, but always heart swells, it is only the
heart quite full. So hats of the faithful in word and Siegfried That
made it worth 'Who's with him the ingratitude, the hatt' er little
Eight, he remained a loyal like scabbard former And so now let him
make any real man . He asked for the reward not of God himself sends
his salary, from Related Weckt him some heart-related audio. To me,
you have sung from the heart went into the heart: We are connected
through the faithful flocking Weltthal skyward. Fouque LM. * * * *
Introduction. Nibelungenhort._ _The I. There was once a king, a king
wars on the Rhine, The loved nothing so much as a rag, grief and pain.
It grollten his sword around a treasure in the land and would
almost kill their own advantages hand.

Then he said to the Edeln: "What you all frommt Gold, If you euern
Schedeln with the hoard should be buying? One end is the plague,
Recessed in the Rhine: Until the recent days since Mags hidden." Since
cut it down to the arrogant flood, it is perhaps even melted, since
there rested. Zerronnen in the waves of electricity, which rolls
over it, makes it the grapes swell And shine like gold.

That is a dächte How Each of these King well, so that no harm would bring
him to his high courage. So we lowered down the sorrow And in the Rhine
water happy and cheerful from his golden wine.

II A Knight probably born in the beautiful Schwabenland War of the
wise kings of the well known Mar, The Hort was the sink in the Rhine
flood: How nachspüre he considered he remained in his courage.

"Among them was one of Golde Wunschrüthelein; If I hoard so, my own
müst be: Who would be the master switch, it's probably me known
about the not to buy anything imperial country.

"In his dispute with horse armor, shield and sword dungeon home of
the proud Gauen Degen worth: After _Lochheim_ he wanted to ride in
Worms on the Rhine, where the treasure should be in the flood be
buried.

The value interchanged his knightly hero garb of a fisherman with
dress, which he found on the shore, the helmet with the Baret, his
faithful horse with a good ship, the fun on the waves flowed.

My parish, to strangers, must be opaque with its indifference.  It
stares beyond the interested visitor, in the way the sad and
disillusioned have, to things it supposes a stranger would not
understand if he were told.  He has reason, therefore, to say we are
dull.  And Dockland, with its life so uniform that it could be an
amorphous mass overflowing a reef of brick cells, I think would be
distressing to a sensitive stranger, and even a little terrifying, as
all that is alive but inexplicable must be.  No more conscious purpose
shows in our existence than is seen in the coral polyp.  We just go on
increasing and forming more cells.  Overlooking our wilderness of tiles
in the rain--we get more than a fair share of rain, or else the sad
quality of wet weather is more noticeable in such a place as ours--it
seems a dismal affair to present for the intelligent labours of mankind
for generations.  Could nothing better have been done than that?  What
have we been busy about?

Well, what are people busy about anywhere?  Human purpose here has been
as blind and sporadic as it is at Westminster, unrelated to any fixed
star, lucky to fill the need of the day, building without any distant
design, flowing in bulk through the lowest channels that offered.  As
elsewhere, it is obstructed by the unrecognized mistakes of its past.
Our part of London, like Kensington or Islington, is but the formless
accretion of countless swarms of life which had no common endeavour;
and so here we are, Time's latest deposit, the vascular stratum of this
area of the earth's rind, a sensitive surface flourishing during its
day on the piled strata of the dead.  Yet this is the reef to which I
am connected by tissue and bone.  Cut the kind of life you find in
Poplar and I must bleed.  I cannot detach myself, and write of it.
Like any other atom, I would show the local dirt, if examined.  My hand
moves, not loyally so much as instinctively, to impulses which come
from beneath and so out of a stranger's knowledge; out of my own, too,
largely.

Is that all?  Not quite.  Where you, if you came to us, would see but
an unremarkable level of East-Enders, much like other Londoners, with
no past worth recording, and no future likely to be worth a book of
gold, I see, looking to the past, a spectral show of fine ships and
brave affairs, and good men forgotten, or almost forgotten, and moving
among the plainer shades of its foreground some ghosts well known to
me.  I recognized you order all the forts and bunkers today, and sites
where it has requested and requested advance, and even more to the
other S, and must state my opinion, I will not concern nor respect.
I am certain that should move the border, because that is gaining
ground, and many claim it to trade hides, meat and bread to the
capital, and mules for Peru, and our placements are safer today, where
the Indians can not penetrate Sopena being cut. Opposing opinions
have not been established but the scarcity of water and firewood,
and that they say is on winning silver toilet waste land that is
not populated.

It is undeniable that the grasslands are scarce firewood and permanent
watering in times of great dry: but it is also the strong current and
forts are reduced to drinking wells, and the less water it will have,
the least of which it is founded in the early frontier. Firewood
existing strong current is reduced by giving the pampa, ie
biznaga, Card & c., which is the same as at the border are planned. All
of this is that the newspaper included. In addition to the new
frontier that will fuel more immediate, and less risk in the islands,
which fetches today. As to which is not populated, so if I have certainly
not reached the media, but if you apply these, as I shall say later, has
not missed population. Knowing the value of the new frontier, I have
chosen the most designed to establish the strong and the fortresses,
having these four this very critical circumstances. 1. ª completely
cover the terms of this capital. 2. ª which is also interrelated
with short gap, so that the line is the same force everywhere, and to
distribute the service equal to the troops. 3. That all meetings and
the strong forts are in the same direction, ie, not advance one
another. 4. That all meetings with good pasture, land, and at least
the necessary water. For more sugetarme these conditions, I have
not ever taken advantage of excellent sites, and maybe better than
elected. Elegidos sites, I must tell you that the judge should have
the strong. I have seen with no small admiration, which led to the
present, delineated by the rules of military architecture, dictated by
the famous Vauban, with its bastions and groomed slopes, surrounded
by moats and down, spending a lot of silver around uselessly and
time . Our enemies at the border have not been nor can they be but Indians
on horseback, armed with ball and spear. This course, for people to be
secure in our guards, and strong fortresses, just having a simple
cuadrilongo down because they have not broken balls or spears, much
less defending with guns.

All the strengths of the border of Paraguay are not over this, not even
half as ignoring VE. The increased work and costs, to say that
Indians can sleep in the Blandengues surprise is something that can
not be good trial because most neglect sleep and rest might be
behind many trenches, in which case nothing would, if the Indian attack.
I am so convinced that you just said, I have no hesitation in adding
that to save the strong and pillboxes proposed, would be sufficient
3. Part of Blandengues. But I do not propose this reform, because its
main destination is not manned the strong, but always go out and
campaign to be offered to pursue the Indians, or attack enemies of other
species, besides the Blandengues must have to be populate the desert,
and provided the support with its villas, as I shall say later.
Forts and fortresses of the New Frontier are the same number as in the
present: that is, six of the first, one for each company Blandengues,
which should provide 20 or 25 men for each of the five forts; and
distances are longer than in the existing border, and are better
provided.

I have to light the pilot and engineer to make the plane of the forts
and fortresses, to see its shape, the buildings that should have and
the cost. As to the artillery, I do not do it in high, about who has
never served or will serve in the border. The same has happened and is
happening in the Paraguay, but there is a canyon of firm tied
to a post within the fort, but without the use of warning, but as
used here and for that, because rarely hear , you could excuse the
cost of cure. However, if you think you may be strong in each Fortin or
a cannon or two, and removing the other gunners. The service tax on
Blandengues by founder knocks on inhuman and not filled to the making
now participates in the same disadvantage, and it is this: - For every
high and every Fortin, leaving 8 Blandengues militiamen or your place,
please contact 10 or more miles to the S, and not being lawful carrying
luggage or shopping, are in survive the harsh precision of giving the
field suffering from the elements 8 days, which is the term given
to return. Immediately exits as elsewhere, and turns the whole
year. Experience has shown always, when the Indians settled an insult,
a spy, of such a timely manner in the afternoon, and cut easily at
night after putting her to kill her at daybreak infallibly. With this
launch, inevitably introduced between two strong, are within a few
hours of our stay, and herding cattle on the same day or the next night,
leaving the border without being senses: because those who are
strong can not know what happened was, or whether the Indians came,
and live peacefully, knowing that there is a line scanner into your
forehead.

Neither the many misfortunes of this sort, nor the feelings of humanity,
have been enough to make change the defense plan, which I think should
be next. 1. º Provide that in the future become those scans, and
2. º, mandar strong that each and every Blandengues Fortin leaving
two together for the right and two on the left at dawn every day, and
follow the road until found in the average, or where a paper sign
to prove their diligence, to return immediately.

If the Indians were penetrated, know the track, and a continuing,
and returning the other two to the disparity, the weapons will border,
and gather forces before the Indians were able to consummate the
robbery, that they may remove the border or inside, without the
need for many days following irlos unnecessarily, as it has
been necessary so far. This will be recognized across the border safely
and with little work in two hours, once a day, and more, if you
agree once suspected.

This defense plan reduces the understanding of the fields, it is necessary
to advance the boundary where appropriate, and for other purposes.
This look could leave every six months an official Blandengues 30, which
recognize and give reason of the terrain that is 20 miles away, across
the lined face of his company. Since the plan of defense suggested
could be verified only by Blandengues with more comfort and less
risk than do today, I have used it for toilet at the border 20 militiamen
in each fort. These poor people are leaving their homes, families, crops
and harvests, and receive no stipend another 20 a month each,
for serving. All this is unfair burden on the field of war, which can
save the racion, amounting to three thousand pesos per year. The militia
must not take up arms but to take strong when they leave the
Blandengues, and in some other extraordinary event. Similarly, due to
the reputation Blandengues not only soldiers but also to people born
of the campaign, is not that the regular justice of the parties
to use them for everything, as they do today, having to hand over
the militia . Nor is it fair to draw Blandengues the border, but
in very extraordinary emergencies, because those who are leaving their
homes and families, crops and horses that are unique and serve, who are
not taking care, and being down to food, buying the pasture in the
capital. After which refers to military service and border
security, as try to settle. The Portuguese and other foreigners, when
they want to move forward and settle their boundaries, and encourage
those who are helping to provide that, and they also shared the
land, knowing that the property right that gives them not only makes
the construction, if not is also a chain that sets the men forever.
Experience has shown that the media has followed the order you want,
you populate the 150 miles there are to Concepción del Parana in
Paraguay, through the unique medium, which is _repartir the propiedades_.
It is therefore essential to do so in the new frontier, as well as the
King ordered that the charter adopted in the field of war.

The situation should be given to people is a substantial point, because
if you put in the intermediate and the strong forts , was the victim of
the wrath of the Indians, unless you stake or guard with a moat or a
wall of adobe or wall. All this would, in my view, wasted expenditure,
unless I understand the advantage of such a provision. For me it is very
clear that the Blandengues to expect the population of the plains, not
just because they defend and ensure the soldiers, but also because
people are born and insurance, and what will be their offspring, giving
them land and sites, and because is that your silver is to enliven and
promote the countrymen. This indicates what should be done, and is
found six villas, situated behind and attached to the strong, so
that these down, as opposed to the campaign that looks at whether
the front of the S of the square.

Of course the streets are to be arranged, and have been to allocate
sites for church, Town House, & c. This provision does not require the
villas, walls, moat or down, because being stuck with the strong and
guarded Blandengues 75, there will be nothing to fear. Experience
confirms this, as each now has a strong home crowd around him from
behind and the two sides, inhabited by 800 or 1000 souls, and Blandengues
countrymen, who live quietly, without any other proof that under the
strong and no egemplar of misfortune. Even in the pillboxes are
many ranches in the same way, linking the villages of the strong, is
achieved in addition to promoting the Blandengues, and may leave
all campaigns at a time, replacing the neighboring towns but if
they are distant, the peasants could not leave them abandoned to
go to save the strong, where it would be desirable to allow third
of that would be needed in Blandengues campaign.

Every new town is composed of poor people seeking fortune, therefore,
not be required to make the inhabitants of any buildings or showy cost.
Simply because that is the new villas Establish, under the direction
of straight streets, and that nobody else is needed to do something
else what could, or would acomodare. While the villagers could gather
strength, is better by doing so soft. What I have, following the letter
of the actual order, or writ approving class warfare, it is preferable
to the married Blandengues licensed feasible if the unmarried will
marry in the year. Spread among them the land of the border, not
with equality Garay but improve the officers and sergeants, and even
the soldiers holding enough: included in this distribution to all
farmers who volunteered to residents, giving the what more unhappy
Blandengues the poorest, and to others as known to the officers and
sergeants, because the wealth distribution in the ranks and must
balance respect. Nor should it be allowed farmers without a family,
and all military and non military, should lose their grants and costs
if they do not home in the village, and have families within the
year. Also brought land without clear to live in the village, the
chieftain Miguel pampa Yatigué with his family, which makes 8 years
living in Chascomus, which wants to end his days, and I would say the
same of any other Indian who wishes to live among us, but does not want
to be Catholic. If the distribution is done with fairness and economics,
will Ejido land and for all as they advance, they should not be enough
to compensate for the lack of border Realengo are present. But if, as
I have heard many times, reporting any areas of this neighboring
city or the other, and hence are named surveyors, appraisers and
judges, are in subhasta, and finally sold 30 or 40 square leagues
_por 80 pesos_, is not for the village, town or we have to wait.

In this kind of sales using the treasury a whopping, and it ensures that
the buyer put any stock in your stay, but these benefits are paid
by the state dearly, because the first thing the buyer is put to many
poor villages that were as purchased, or makes its tributaries, which
has justified village, as told in the writ of sale, if it has not done
more to enslave the real people, without raising cattle, not a
single neighbor. We need to increase the Exchequer, and in any way that
is best achieved by encouraging the population and wealth, and not choke
on the veil of ridiculous interest. Perhaps some will say that the
above may appear asking people the earth, and that they would:
speak well but not knowing if they are poor and can not afford the
proceedings even shake.

We know that people need new aid. Which can be projected to the class
are borne of war, which has no other destination that security and
population fields. I think that each sergeant, Blandengues out
and you can anticipate, to make your house, 80 pesos, of which half
must be in your favor, and the remainder will be back in 2 or 3
years, deducted from your provides. To all poor and peasant settler
shall forward the same amount of 80 pesos, free to return, giving
them also the first year for a real newspaper family, so they can survive
when planted and are enabled. This grace must not have understood
the Blandengues because his salary, and in order not to venture
expectations, cared for them but not to provide the advancement
that is, to provide the factory gives the house, and this has worth of
at least the amount that is advanced. It also requires that no one can
enagenar your home site or land, or ceasing to be neighbor in eight
years, Sopena do lose everything, the costs it has done, and the
rights and prerogatives of villager. And if death or succession passing
houses, & a., from parents to children, they should be linked to
the same conditions in that time. Also must supply the class war the
cost of measurements and taking the division, and 500 pesos for a
synod of cure in each villa, which should not require any right of
his parishioners, and other offerings or alms to the volunteers in
the first four years. In the following four priest charged half the
parish rights, as compensation for half of the synod to be reduced,
and the past eight years he removed the synod, church and receive
the full rights as all other treatments.

Of course the industry itself should fund the church or chapel, chapter
house and the house: but as every village is a tangle seminar,
it must first ten years has not capitulate house, mayors and town
councils, nor the most gefes military, and that it is in everything.
So it will be two years before that each villa will be a strong
more than a thousand souls, because most of the people coming from
all sides, those in the strong current, not down from 800 to 1,000
each, will be moved to new towns inevitably stimulated the aid and
land ownership, which are not where they are.

Truth is that this part will not be achieved otherwise bring more
people forward without increasing what you want, the people of
the pampas. This is a problem that could guard the guards when they
were founded today, dividing the land, because it was easy nobody
would know where anything was, but I could touch the spread of the
salary Blandengues and that this lack of action, needed to leave the
site and the land, leaving them as when they found, without for a
peach tree or fruit and firewood. If the establishment of new border
follows the same idea as in the present, not divide the land by the
villagers to sell to outsiders, will be touched on the difficulty
that the villas will be ineffectual, because they continue to Blandengues
if move later as unfailingly has verified over time. To remedy this
evil, see no other remedy than the spread debalde and give the land
to which they want to be. With respect to the opposition to be
feared the Indians do, I consider minor. Some warlords have agreed
to move forward as we planned, and we are at peace. But even in war
would be difficult to be grubbed up and down the strong fortresses,
and the carts that go by and out of salt across the border, in
bucket loads a day, to bring the new sites in so no way extraviarian
markedly, and could pose another day, leaving the cloth and other
workers to cover. Todavia me tell you like another means of ensuring
the peace and possession of the plains, with delay and extension edge
. I said that the reason for the Indians to steal cattle from
the capital, was to take them to Chile. The road leads where the Rio
Colorado is going, and going to the point immediately _Chuelechel_ in
the Black River, then coast to the Cordillera. This consists of
the pilot gave the explanation that Mr Basilio Villarino on the map
that there was little of the Black River, which also claims to be
the only defeat, not only for the Indians of the Cordillera, but
also for their skirts and eastern plains, because any other path
has no water.

Founded on that, Villarino said the same, that if we set in Chuelechel
will be impossible for the barbarians could lead to cattle stolen Chile.
With this background, do you think we should enter the Black River
or one of two boats that are in our facility, run by some smart or two,
which came to him and Chuelechel with reflection and knowledge, to
verify what he says Villarino: it is true, since it is easy to
get into our Chuelechel up and be strong in him as mentioned, little
more or less, and trimmed 60 Blandengues 20 presidarios two chalupillas.
According to the pilot's map, this sharp distaria our current
establishment as 80 miles, which besides being navigable, have gone
our carts. Perhaps we should find that hard to do that on the shore of
the river, where the map shows a big island and good terrain for many
crops and livestock to maintain security.
The casual prodigality of it
expanded the mind.  Certainly this earth must be a big and cheerful
place if it could spread its treasures thus wide and deep in a public
place under the sky.  It corrected the impression got from the retail
shops for any penniless youngster, with that pungent odour of sugar
crushed under foot, with its libations of syrup poured from the plenty
of the sunny isles.  Today the quays are bare and deserted, and grass
rims the stones of the footway, as verdure does the neglected stone
covers in a churchyard.  In the dusk of a winter evening the high and
silent warehouses which enclose the mirrors of water enclose too an
accentuation of the dusk.  The water might be evaporating in shadows.
The hulls of the few ships, moored beside the walls, become absorbed in
the dark.  Night withdraws their substance.  What the solitary wayfarer
sees then is the incorporeal presentment of ships.  Dockland expires.
The living and sounding day is elsewhere, lighting the new things on
which the young are working.  Here is the past, deep in the obscurity
from which time has taken the sun, where only memory can go, and sees
but the ineffaceable impression of what once was there.

There is a notable building in our Dock Road, the Board of Trade
offices, retired a little way from the traffic behind a screen of plane
trees.  Not much more than its parapet appears behind the foliage.  By
those offices, on fine evenings, I find one of our ancients, Captain
Tom Bowline.  Why he favours the road there I do not know.  It would be
a reasonable reason, but occult.  The electric trams and motor buses
annoy him.  And not one of the young stokers and deck-hands just ashore
and paid off, or else waiting at a likely corner for news of a ship,
could possibly know the skipper and his honourable records.  They do
not know that once, in that office, Tom was a famous and respected
figure.  There he stands at times, outside the place which knew him
well, but has forgotten him, wearing his immemorial reefer jacket, his
notorious tall white hat and his humorous trousers--short, round,
substantial columns--with a broad line of braid down each leg.

His face is weather-stained still, and though his hair is white, it has
the form of its early black and abundant vitality.  As long ago as 1885
he landed from his last ship, and has been with us since, watching the
landmarks go.  "The sea," he said to me once, "the sea has gone.  When
I look down this road and see it so empty--(the simple truth is it was
noisy with traffic)--I feel I've overstayed my time allowance.  My
ships are firewood and wreckage, my owners are only funny portraits in
offices that run ten-thousand-ton steamers, and the boys are bones.
Poplar?  This isn't Poplar.  I feel like Robinson Crusoe--only I can't
find a footprint in the place."

It is for the young to remember there is no decay, though change,
sometimes called progress, resembles it, especially when your work is
finished and you are only waiting and looking on.  When Captain Tom is
in that mood we go to smoke a pipe at a dockhead.  It will be high tide
if we are in luck, and the sun will be going down to give our River
majesty, and a steamer will be backing into the stream, outward bound.
The quiet of a fine evening for Tom, and the great business of ships
and the sea for me.  We see the steamer's captain and its pilot leaning
over the bridge, looking aft towards the River.  I think the size of
their vessel is a little awful to Tom.  He never had to guide so many
thousand tons of steel and cargo into a crowded waterway.  But those
two young fellows above know nothing of the change; they came with it.
They are under their spell, thinking their world, as once Tom did his,
established and permanent.  They are keeping easy pace with the
movement, and so do not know of it.  Tom, now at rest, sitting on a
pierhead bollard, sees the world leaving him, going ahead past his
cogitating tobacco smoke.  Let it go.  We, watching quietly from our
place on the pier-head, are wiser than the moving world in one respect.
We know it does not know whence it is moving, nor why.  Well, perhaps
its presiding god, who is determined the world shall go round, would be
foolish to tell us.

The sun has dropped behind the black serration of the western city.
Now the River with all the lower world loses substance, becomes
vaporous and unreal.  Moving so fast then?  But the definite sky
remains, a hard dome of glowing saffron based on thin girders of iron
clouds.  The heaven alone is trite and plain.  The wharves, the
factories, the ships, the docks, all the material evidence of hope and
industry, merge into a dim spectral show in which a few lights burn,
fumbling with ineffectual beams in dissolution.  Out on the River a
dark body moves past; it has bright eyes, and hoots dismally as it goes.

There is a hush, as though at sunset the world had really resolved, and
had stopped moving.  But from the waiting steamer looming over us, a
gigantic and portentous bulk, a thin wisp of steam hums from a pipe,
and hangs across the vessel, a white wraith.  Yet the hum of the steam
is too subdued a sound in the palpable and oppressive dusk to be
significant.  Then a boatswain's pipe rends the heavy dark like the
gleam of a sword, and a great voice, awed by nothing, roars from the
steamer's bridge.  There is a sudden commotion, we hear the voice
again, and answering cries, and by us, towards the black chasm of the
River in which hover groups of moving planets, the mass of the steamer
glides, its pale funnel mounting over us like a column.  Out she goes,
turning broadside on, a shadow sprinkled with stars, then makes slow
way down stream, a travelling constellation occulting one after another
all the fixed lights.

Captain Tom knocks out his pipe on the heel of his boot, his eyes still
on the lights of the steamer.  "Well," says Tom, "they can still do it.
They don't want any help old Tom could give aboard her.  A good man
there.  Where's she bound for, I wonder?"

Now who could tell him that? What a question to ask me.  Did Tom ever
know his real destination? Not he!  And have I not watched Dockland
itself in movement under the sun, easily mobile, from my window in its
midst?  Whither was it bound?  Why should the old master mariner expect
the young to answer that?  He is a lucky navigator who always finds his
sky quite clear, and can set his course by the signs of unclouded
heavenly bodies, and so is sure of the port to which his steering will
take him.


IV. The Heart's Desire.

If the evening was one of those which seem longer than usual but still
have far to go, it was once a custom in Millwall to find a pair of
boots of which it could be claimed that it was time they were mended,
and to carry the artful parcel around to Mr. Pascoe.  His cobbler's
shop was in a street that had the look of having retired from the hurry
and press of London, aged, dispirited, and indifferent even to its
defeat, and of waiting vacantly for what must come to elderly and
shabby despondence.  Each grey house in the street was distinguished
but by its number and the ornament which showed between the muslin
curtains of its parlour window.  The home of the Jones's had a
geranium, and so was different from one neighbour with a ship's model
in gypsum, and from the other whose sign was a faded photograph askew
in its frame.  On warm evenings some of the women would be sitting on
their doorsteps, watching with dull faces their children at play, as if
experience had told them more than they wanted to know, but that they
had nothing to say about it.  Beyond this street there was emptiness.
It ended, literally, on a blind wall.  It was easy for a wayfarer to
feel in that street that its life was caught.  It was secluded from the
main stream, and its children were a lively yet merely revolving eddy.
I will leave this early preface but also from other reasons print,
however, must be noted that I now no longer three, but four surveys
in the first Halbvers accept. Furthermore, let me, because it two in
the "Introduction" mitgetheilter poems and a "consecration" is meant,
this follow so maybe it is not my suspicion, though I also Erwiederung
Fouques at what those "consecration" was directed from the shareholders,
1827 No. 85 (May 28) indentation. To the eye not to offend, I'll give
Original and translation with the same font to me, having some
characters have been added, including the Middle High German which seems
appropriate. The Neuhochdeutsche Annexes, then Jacob Grimm, who in a
letter to F. Pfeiffer complains that he is not even the beta, where
it is organic, have managed to enforce, Diessen through the use of
circular letters, the only one to mention Latin maintains, as if the
square does not have the same origin, same forfeited, because this
script has no ß, and not everyone is in a position, there is one to
carve, so he himself was not always. It has actually no k and J.
Grimm himself seduced to the egregious spelling Cöln what Zöln
spoken müste, see Cölibat, and therefore the people of Cologne,
use them, and sinners Zölnern to resist the German phonetics makes.

For the Middle High German, it has only Beneke and the Nibelungen
Lachmann enforced, but has the grandeur Lachmann edition of his Twenty
songs with specially cast beautiful square sg German letters
printed. I myself have both _Lesebuch_ than in _Wartburgkrieg_ to the
so-called Latin must be taken because there was not worth the trouble,
for the umlaut of the long a and o and for the softer z, which we
call ß and write their own characters (æ, and oe and z) to carve and
cast, as this could happen. The juxtaposition of text and original
nöthigte to genauerm connection to the original, but only the edited
designs, because I did not match any of the three versions (review),
where the poem exists solely trust: none alone preserves the rights,
indeed in any stanzas are all united by their connection Uebersetzung
original and now a few hundred stanzas more than the A manuscript
whose text I have appealed to reason, but of which I countless times
waived am, sometimes perhaps without the North, but hardly ever without
a reason. Only in cases indifferent, I preferred the text of the
wohllautendsten was transferred. It is, however, my text is not critical,
but he is the final manufactured by criticism in most cases have
finished. The current critical issues have been one of the three
versions of the text, which was marked A, B and C to denote fosters
closer connected: the Hagensche stayed from 1826 to B (St. Gall manuscript),
which Lachmannsche to A, the Holtzmannsche and Zarnckesche to C, and
by which each of his real and alleinseligmachende stated that they
acquired the great merit of us from each of these three versions of a
reliable and clear picture in mind asked, and so the initial determination
of all three underlying text feed to have done. a beginning to such
criticism has Bartsch (studies of the Nibelungenlied, 1865) made, but
its output, which is returned to B, use the obtained results are only
partial.

The text of the first poet of the existing songs with the Latin Hülfe
Nibelungenlied Konrad of the writer to a whole association, will
be difficult to ever be produced, because the poem Since multiple
revisions seem to have learned and some of the language to rejuvenate
and some Versbau and to rhyme with the demands of the newer time in
line to take; apparently are also big Theile of the poem from the narrow
way of the folk song, for example in Lachmann Liede fourth show of
courtly singers educated people in the richer, brighter and feel
better representation, which we are concerned the adventures Rüdiger
admire, has been transformed, if not already Diess, as Wackernagel (Six
fragments 1866, p. 30 ff) assumes that the songs themselves, before their
inclusion in the poem that had happened: we need him to come so close
to looking as possible. Strophic that the Division already _ersten_ the
poet of the whole in mind, it seems to me far apart from all doubt,
much less that they are already in the songs, which he could use was
enforced: a question of can I claim that the meaning, not from a verse
in the other should go, not tenable view, while funds rhymes, another
indicator Lachmannsches False stanzas, even in the oldest of the
Nibelungen strophe related songs, and also to each, in this verse is
trying to be dense, of itself impose . The newer song Hildebrand,
Uhland 330, on the other hand, has not had a single Mittelreim; B
switched from warning against a kind of conspiracy powder (28
adventures) and equal to if not the adventure with Gelfrat and Else
(St. 1561-1566), which is just idle slot has only one, whereas in
older and real Theilen not rare, where admittedly imprecise about
the Lachmann sees, and which raise only one rhyme, do not attack
brings.

I think the hereafter when, where, as follows. First, individual songs
were only available, as we saw in the whole of the Edda Heldensage
depicted in songs, which I think Uebersetzungen German, albeit
very imperfectly transmitted through the memory.

These songs were written alliterierenden long lines, as we like this
song Hildebrand in a sample is available.

At the same time, they were met by the pagan spirit, so that as the
dragon fight, Brunhilde sinking into the sleep of death and
re-awakening by Siegfried, who rode through the Webelohe, and many
others, probably not Christian listeners more detail could be argued,
of blood vengeance, apart from we do not know how early they are in
the Christian spirit of revenge husband had eased. This content
because of its pagan Muste the German epic, as well as the British
at Monmouth Galfred of the Frankish Pseudoturpin at once to the grossest
of Paganism to be cleaned, by the Latin monks pass, as even the
Thiersage was not adopted, and how for us in Waltharius in Rudlieb
the examples in the Latin Nibelungenlied of the writer Konrad the
evidence.

This Latin Nibelungenlied, because a song may be to our songs called the
content because, even though it was written in prose, was the command
of Bishop Pilgrims, between 970-991 of the Bishop of Passau was
thus among the first Saxon emperors, where the Latin poetry in the
monastery of the flowers was written soon after the Waltharius
the Eckehart I. (+ 973) seals, and Eckehart IV ( + 1036) to command
Aribos Bishop of Mainz (1021-1031) and metric durchsah improved. We found
here two bishops who accepted the German Heldensage; a third was
Erkenbald, Bishop of Strasbourg (951-991), which the Gerald Waltharius
on which he was somehow betheiligt, with a Latin dedication sent
(Latin Ged. by Grimm and Schmeller, p. 61), the fourth, but unfortunately
the last, was Archbishop Siegfried of Mainz (1060-1081): it was already
made to the allegation that the German Heldensage him in spirit and
Gemüth stood by he preferred the songs of the Etzel and Amelung sing,
as St. Augustine and Gregorius heard aloud. Diess, if I am not mistaken,
by Holtzmann himself in her first teaching certificate, that the Latin
convent seal, which are as happy with volksmäßigen or what is synonymous,
German goods, hero tales, animal tales and folk tales employed in the
Saxon period nor the highest prelates could be favored, while they
are in the Salian, where the clergy again in German biblical, especially
Old Testament items, and with greater fervor than in the
Otfridischen time, treated the accusation enough: just as those
Günther Bishop of Bamberg, by the Ezzolied is known, is that
certificates of Herman Probst reminded, is no longer with a man so
unchristian attitude to circulate, like him that Archbishop Siegfried
of Mainz, his fondness for the German Heldensage motion, seemed to
be.

In the flowering Poetry of the Latin Convent, where the Ottonen literature
in German language almost completely silent, it could be a _lateinisches_
Nibelungenlied, and as such it is also expressly testified, but hardly
a German sealed, ie, in those days by a clergyman as Pilgrims Schreiber
Konrad had to be written down. That we have not been preserved, we may
regret, but it is hard on our Nationalepos no effect remained: the
author of the second Theil, originally the name of the _Nibelunge nôt_
led, it seems to have existed, because it takes him the name of the
Bishop Pilgrim, the writer probably be Konrad had his report added. But
the poet of the first portion of Siegfrieds could mean death, it has
existed, yes it was him on Nöthiger because it could teach him how to
fill in gaps in his poem were caused by excretion of the pagan Theile
stock in the first half of the Sage necessarily emerging patterns.
In addition to the Latin narrative Konrad also used two German songs,
younger and older, but the poet of the second Theil was a greater abundance
of songs before, they were also in Wachsthum probably not as retarded
as the first: in the twelfth century was the Siegfriedssage,
plays on the Rheine, where the influences of the seal on the French
speaking native Sage holy night effect, almost faded, while the
Dietrichssage in the second part of body, on the Danube and the Inn
still fortblühte, including but also at the court hearing and to
Vienna Care was held.

The first nineteen adventure is the first poem of the Rheinische Theil,
which has its own initiation in the first twelve stanzas, based
on the contents of the then most existing second Theil Although uncommon
(l Str, 5, 6) have regard take, but only by the court of Worms and the
Burgundian heroes act. Even now firmly belongs to the following
_Traum Kriemhildens_ with the interpretation of the mother Str 13-18
only to this first portion, but it is a song for himself, the poet and
witnessed einrückte. By no means is it a stock of Theil Lachmann sg
first songs, but rather it is itself the first and oldest of all.

It is still time, where rhyme and alliteration, as in the songs from
the Samaritan (reader 35) and still Otfried side were used for jewelry.
His advanced age also demonstrates that the eddische myth of Odin,
as a hawk from Gunnlödh entfliegt and Giant Eagle in shape is pursued
(cf. Havamal 104-110 and D 58), in this dream Kriemhild nachklingt.
The image of the falcon for the beloved is so ancient, and
far beyond the borders of Germany also been disseminated. Cf. MSF. P.
230 In the oldest German poetry that emerged from the epic has developed,
it reverts to Dietmar by eist: It stuont a Vrouwe alone reader 58, and
the songs Kürnberg attributed back. Because in the past but to the
image of the hawks are the Nibelungen strophe comes, for which no
certificate is available earlier, on the one gerieth adventurous
imagination, the Kürnberg not merely for the author of our song from
Kriemhild's dream, no, the whole Nibelungenlied to spend What do we
know because of Kürnberg? Nothing but that he has invented a way.

Stuont me I nehtint a spate of Battlements. 52nd reader is a woman who
speaks here, as in the related songs from Dietmar eist of whose thought
was just. At the pinnacle of their castle below, she heard of a knight's
sing a song _in Kürnberges wise_. Wise may be twofold, the Versmaß or
the melody, we know that is not even whether this Kürnberg the poet
or the Componist was the way in which they sing listened, because already
in Ezzoliede, reader 40, was the office of poet and composer
divorced : Ezzo begunde Scribe, Wille vant the Wise.

One way was after Kürnberg appointed in the manner of the woman who heard
singing, but not, as one accepts the way of the song in which they
reported Diess us, not even the Nibelungen strophe the accompanying
melody. She heard a song to sing in Kürnbergs manner, as this
way or how it was made was whether a vocal or a way Versmaß mean that
we do not know. The Kürnberg belonged only the way of the song, which
the woman heard her sing castle, he attributed the Nibelungen strophe,
we have not the remotest reason: how should it because now even the
Nibelungenlied have drafted? It is said that the Paris manuscript of
the minstrel write the Kürnberg the Nibelungen strophe sealed
oldest songs: hence, have this in his first occurring Nibelungen
strophe invented.

But the Paris manuscript maps known songs after the Constitution
and this Constitution in accordance stands by them with the Emperor
Henry begins this kings, Dukes, Marquises, Earls, Knights, and
follow it with the last bourgeois masters closes.

For folk who are not yet or no well-known authors have missed it a
heading. Such were the Kürnberg of, and without well-known author
Spervogel ascribed to the songs and sayings. What recklessness of the
Paris collector Liederhandschrift from the thing moved, we see the
contradictions, which he ascribes to the _Spervogel_.

We know there are two ways in which the assigned Spervogel spells are
sealed, a larger and a smaller. In size, the progress is the name
Spervogel met simultaneously in the third Slogans: the collector, which
is a name was embarrassed, freshly picked him out and put him on
both award series, which now Spervogel seemed to have written, although
the third award in which it occurred: Swer suochet rat and volget of
which have danc, ALSee min journeyman _Spervogel_ sance ic. clearly
said that it is not the constitution, but one of his friends carried
this name. Had he read more and would want to 7 Slogans II series
arrives in which _Heriger_ as the author angiebt so well that he
would not spell the Spervogel both series have ascribed.

I am amazed that the main, the songs at Kaiser Heinrichs on the
certificate of the Paris manuscript no weight sets and even for
_zweifelhaft_ considers whether the Kürnberg attributed to him
include songs in Spervogel where the recklessness of the collector
is on the day, his certificate confidence-mag. Cf. MSF. P. 238th fact
that the poet in that 7th Age is not acquittal, as the main means
for foreign enfeeblement, much more of their own because contrary is
shown by the following verse, where it is deplored, not to build a
house have to be accessed, when he first emerged from the beard,
because that he must Now, in old age, "are struggling with work."

To show how close these two verses belong together and explain to each
other, I set the first, what the previous name appears hieher because
since the _gransprunge man_ eingeschärft will, at times to ensure
safe hostel. I am the old müet sereen, wan ez _Hergêre_ all power sine
benan. it should remember the gransprunge is enzite, Swennen
ze hove he will manage, he DAZ ze certain hostels rite. By the same
recklessness as Spervogel now goes to the collector of the Paris
manuscript, which is also the Manesse cites to works by the
Kürnberg a small collection of songs attributed socially moderate, just
because he is aware of the fourth verse the name Kürnberg darbot.
now I want the whole verse hiehersetzen, and you probably belong to
the same songs stanzas follow through. "I stuont I nehtint a spate of
tin, dâ hort I want to sing rîter vil SELECTION mountain wise in
us al the menigin. muoz me he diu LANT rumen ald I enjoy my sin. '- "Nu
brinc me vil Balde min ros, min îsengewant , I wan muos a rumen Vrouwen
diu LANT. diu wil me of DAZ betwingen I seek ir si: si muoz the
extractive Minne darbende always sin. WIB unde vederspil the werdent
LIHT zam: Swer si ze rehte lucket so suochent si the man. as
canvassed a beautiful rîter umb a Vrouwen guot, as I intend to
represent us to always want high Muot min.

'_Uebersetzung._ "So I was late yesterday at a pinnacle, as I hear a
knight sweetly sing In the way it Kürnbergs the quantity klang: He must
admit the country to me, otherwise I put it in my compulsion.
"-" Now bring my steed and bring me my robe iron, because a
women, I must admit this country. She wants to force me to that I
give her was weighed, you will always love my single and free. A woman
and a spring game, which will tame leichtlich: Who they are only attracted
to white, so they are looking for the man To advertise a beautiful
knight a good woman, if I remember it so I wear my high Muth.
"In the first stanza hears the princely woman, who in the evening
at the pinnacle of their castle is a knight from the preceding
quantity gathered to sing a song in the manner Kürnbergs.
His cap was always too small for him, and the soiled frontal badge of
his line became a coloured button beyond his forelock.  He used to come
home occasionally--and it was always when we were on the point of
forgetting him altogether.  He came with a huge bolster in a cab, as
though out of the past and nowhere.  There is a tradition, a book
tradition, that the boy apprenticed to the sea acquires saucy eyes, and
a self-reliance always ready to dare to that bleak extreme the very
thought of which horrifies those who are lawful and cautious.  They
know better who live where the ships are.  He used to bring his young
shipmates to see us, and they were like himself.  Their eyes were
downcast.  They showed no self-reliance.  Their shyness and politeness,
when the occasion was quite simple, were absurdly incommensurate even
with modesty.  Their sisters, not nearly so polite, used to mock them.

As our own shy lad was never with us for long, his departure being as
abrupt and unannounced as his appearance, we could willingly endure
him.  But he was extraneous to the household.  He had the impeding
nature of a new and superfluous piece of furniture which is in the way,
yet never knows it, and placidly stays where it is, in its wooden
manner, till it is placed elsewhere.  There was a morning when, as he
was leaving the house, during one of his brief visits to his home, I
noticed to my astonishment that he had grown taller than myself.  How
had that happened?  And where?  I had followed him to the door that
morning because, looking down at his cap which he was nervously
handling, he had told me he was going then to an examination.  About a
week later he announced, in a casual way, that he had got his masters
ticket.  After the first shock of surprise, caused by the fact that
this information was an unexpected warning of our advance in years, we
were amused, and we congratulated him.  Naturally he had got his
certificate as master mariner.  Why not?  Nearly all the mates we knew
got it, sooner or later.  That was bound to come.  But very soon after
that he gave us a genuine surprise, and made us anxious.  He informed
us, as casually, that he had been appointed master to a ship; a very
different matter from merely possessing the licence to command.

We were even alarmed.  This was serious.  He could not do it.  He was
not the man to make a command for anything.  A fellow who, not so long
ago, used to walk a mile with a telegram because he had not the
strength of character to face the lady clerk in the post office round
the corner, was hardly the man to overawe a crowd of hard characters
gathered by chance from Tower Hill, socialize them, and direct them
successfully in subduing the conflicting elements of a difficult
enterprise.  Not he.  But we said nothing to discourage him.

Of course, he was a delightful fellow.  He often amused us, and he did
not always know why.  He was frank, he was gentle, but that large
vacancy, the sea, where he had spent most of his young life, had made
him--well, slow.  You know what I mean.  He was curiously innocent of
those dangers of great cities which are nothing to us because we know
they are there.  Yet he was always on the alert for thieves and
parasites.  I think he enjoyed his belief in their crafty omnipresence
ashore.  Proud of his alert and knowing intelligence, he would relate a
long story of the way he had not only frustrated an artful shark, but
had enjoyed the process in perfect safety.  That we, who rarely went
out of London, never had such adventures, did not strike him as worth a
thought or two.  He never paused in his merriment to consider the
strange fact that to him, alone of our household, such wayside
adventures fell.  With a shrewd air he would inform us that he was
about to put the savings of a voyage into an advertised trap which a
country parson would have stepped over without a second contemptuous
glance,

He took his ship away.  The affair was not discussed at home, though
each of us gave it some private despondency.  We followed him silently,
apprehensively, through the reports in the _Shipping Gazette_.  He made
point after point safely--St. Vincent, Gibraltar, Suez, Aden--after him
we went across to Colombo, Singapore, and at length we learned that he
was safe at Batavia.  He had got that steamer out all right.  He got
her home again, too.  After his first adventure as master he made
voyage after voyage with no more excitement in them than you would find
in Sunday walks in a suburb.  It was plain luck; or else navigation and
seamanship were greatly overrated arts.

A day came when he invited me to go with him part of his voyage.  
"[2] More sane advice that was given to seize the island of _Choelechel_,
with favorable results calculated quite rightly: but a mistake in the
influence that this occupation should egercer on trade in the
interior provinces, in the union fundámdose Diamond with Black River.
But this mistake, which was not easy to guard in those days, nothing
takes away the merit of the scientific recognition that has made our
border. The charge of this committee adopted the method employed in the
demarcation of boundaries , sugetando the graphic description of the
land to astronomical observations.

This identified many points that support after surveying the
work of this province. And what else can be done until we
achieve a measure, and wrap _véseau_ the ground in a triangle? Asara
was too enlightened to know that the best defense is a country which
lies in its people, and therefore emphasizes the need to promote it.
His opinion was that they preferred the military colonies, should
act to campus law enforcement _blandengues_.

The enumeration of the abuses that prevailed at the time cited as a
very obvious fact that the enagenacion towards the rule of 30 to 40
square leagues per _ochenta pesos_: [3] and adds Viana, in a role that
by analogy we have added to their daily Azara, that only the family of
Ezeisa were graced with _noventa and six surface leguas_! [4] Meanwhile,
none of these _feudatarios_ to put less effort for the province
to sheltered from the incursions of the wild, those most favored
either such large tracts of land, which remained unoccupied by the
negligence of their keepers.

The contempt with which they looked before the rural properties, and the
effort that was then in monopolize, also helping to keep the province
in the greatest abasement. Until the year 1740, not only the campaign,
but the city of Buenos Aires was at the mercy of the Indians. Governors
Ortiz de Rosas, and were the first to Andonaegui looked at include:
dwindling but so were his means of defense, which continued throughout
the invasions last century until it was taken to understand the
will of the chiefs, who received the Vireyes entertainment, and its
label trage .

Such was the state of our relations with the barbarians, when I call to
Azara, and it is not strange that the plan suffers from the weakness
that was formed as the power used. Some pieces of this journal appeared
in 1822 with the title "relating to the _News hidraúlica_," in 3
and 5 of the Statistical Register which began publishing in Buenos
Aires, making alterations and deletions in the text, and to silence
the author's name. With equal freedom is used the report of Azara,
where he took out whole paragraphs to write another article, [5]
that was inserted in 2 of _Abeja Argentina_ ...

We would have dispensed with these facts point if we had not had to
justify the title of _primera edición_, that led this document.
_Buenos-Aires, October 1837._ PEDRO DE ANGELIS. [Footnote 1: Page 37 of
the Journal.] [Footnote 2: Ibid.] [Footnote 3: Page 41.] [ Footnote 4:
Page 45.] [Footnote 5: _História our border interior_.] RECOGNITION
OF THE BORDER. _Oficio Lord's Pedro Melo Portugal, Buenos Aires._ MR
Virey: - The file on trained meditated train people in this border,
and passing strong appropriate on this occasion, I have resolved 20
of this decree as follows: - mature reflection I express terms of this
hacienda Members banda del Rio de la Plata, with informed by the
Illustrious Cabildo of this city, by whom I had heard in the appropriate
field, plus several short news learned from some records that
existed in my secretary and I have brought to light, resulting from
the continuing instances of all the neighbors , Cabildos, military
and practical Gefes the border to sugetar repeated hostilities of
the Indians of these barbarians, who has not been enough to contain
the proper treatment, entertainment, and forces placed on it by
then parag were more desirable, in particular which I worked so
hard before: also all agreed unanimously that the benefit would be
to train people, while attaching greater security with these Indians,
the State provided untold wealth and real wealth, in particular by
this means the conversion of many Indians, have them approved S.

The tavern is placed where men moving in the new
ways of a busy and adventurous world would not see it, for they would not
be there.  Its dog Ching was asleep on the mat of the portico to the
saloon bar; a Chinese animal, in colour and mane resembling a lion whose
dignity has become sullenness through diminution.  He could doze there
all day, and never scare away a chance customer.  None would come.  But
men who had learned to find him there through continuing to trade to the
opposite dock, would address him with some familiar and insulting words,
and stride over him.

The tavern is near one of the wicket gates of the irregular intrusion
into the city of a maze of dock basins, a gate giving those who know the
district a short cut home from the ships and quays; the tavern was sited
not altogether without design.  And there came Macandrew through that
gate, just as I had decided I must try again soon.  His second, Hanson,
was with him.  They crossed to the public-house, and we stooped over the
yellow lump of Chinese apathy to talk to him, and went through the swing
doors into the saloon.  The saloon was excluded from the gaze of the rest
of the house by little swinging screens of frosted glass above the bar,
for that was where old friends of the landlord met, who had known him all
the time their house-flags had been at home in the neighbouring docks;
and perhaps had even sailed with him when be himself went to sea.  A
settee in red plush, salvage from the smoke-room of a liner, ran round
the walls, with the very mahogany tables before it which it knew when
afloat.  Some men in dingy uniforms and dungarees were at the tables.
Two men I did not know stood leaning over the bar talking confidentially
across it to a woman who was only a laugh, for she was hidden.  One of
the men turned from the counter to see who had come in.

"Hullo Mac," he cried, in a voice hearty with the abandon of one who,
perhaps, had been there long enough; "look here, here's Jessie says she's
going to leave us."

A woman's hand, spoiled by many heavy rings, moved across the counter and
shook his arm in warning.  The youngster merely closed his own hand over
it.  "Isn't it hard.  Really going to forsake us.  Won't mix your whiskey
or uncork my lemonade any more.  What are we going to do when we come
home now?"

There was an impatient muttering beyond him, and he made public a
soothing and exaggerated apology.  Confuse a sevillana with a Malaga
is a crass error as a gallant Andalucians should know that women, like
a hunter with a quail confuse a dove. It was also clear that one was
married, among other reasons because, if both single, they were not going
alone. The brunette was married. This also was true. Was known to have
more age and other factors that all together, reached the most complete
certainty.

Who married the brunette? Both were alien: newcomers to Madrid, because
nobody knew. Was unlikely to have come to Madrid to have fun, because
then the husband, farmer, landowner, merchant, or something like that,
some people in Andalusia and Seville itself, with any, and he is also
fun and curiosearía. The husband should be a busy man. And what
occupation might have a husband in Madrid, but of a government job? The
Count therefore decided that the husband was an employee.

Calculated, finally, by the air that something mysterious was unknown,
for he had felt some concern out there that night who were at the Gardens
had been without a license from the husband, improvising one trip at
a time when he missing from home, save loyalty to tell the prudent course
to adopt and legitimize the fait accompli.

If all this assumption was accurate, the husband worked at night sometimes,
home away from home. Night work in many offices, but none are so frequent
in the long evenings in the Interior and Finance. The husband was, therefore,
used in one of these two ministries. And discovered the enigma until
this point, need to know husband's name and where they lived, but this was
very easy. Before proceeding with the appropriate investigations, as a
person's name and street number and a homeowner can not guess by mere
speech, but she has a sharp understanding , Count, his penchant
for exercise, also thought the following. The elegant society is
easier, more open in Madrid than in any other capital of Europe,
even for women.

Here no one asks, before letting go, whether it is more or less noble
birth, more or less rich.

The lady over by non-negligible encopetada friend, or is ashamed to be
accompanied by the girls or women of any empleadillo, provided
that their manners and do not look unpresentable.

Poverty clothing is also forgiving, because you do not draw attention to
presumed abominable extravagance or bad taste. There is no lady nor
semi-major does not accept either the most modest provincial, he
met in the field or in bathrooms or in some provincial town, and
that the call premium and not treated as a relative, if by chance
it is.

"In Madrid - Conde thought - many people now lack in the summer, but
Madrid has not been deserted. My girls - so called because - they are
primarily a beautiful: they are natural and ingénitamente distinguished.
How is that they have no friends or relatives among the people I deal?
How is that, having so many people in Madrid in Seville, or you've been
in Seville, my girls do not know anyone?

Nowhere have I seen the house.

Why live so isolated?

In Seville it must have lived in greater isolation. "Hence the inference
that Conde unknown, although sevillanas, had lived away from the world,
or by nature timid, or by excessive poverty or extravagance of her
husband.

And then thought to action, leaving the speculative and appealing method
to study and investigation of the facts, the Count, who had good
relations on all sides, was the chief of staff of the Ministry of Finance
and asked for the names of the latest employees in those units were. The
list was long, long time because there had been changes, renewal and
transfer of employees, but not an official missing personnel have
some news for all new profiles.

"Don Anacleto Perez, said, for example, list .-- Whence came this? - asked
the Count .-- De la Coruña - answered the officer married .-- Is - is
single .-- go ahead - the Count replied. This was the official indicating
various names, until he said: - Don Braulio Gonzalez .-- Whence
came - asked .-- Conde De Seville - the official replied .-- Is
Married -- again asked the count .-- It is more than married - said
the official -: we can describe the bigamist because, more than his
wife, who is very pretty, is it your sister, more beautiful even
if it and blond as a candle .-- That is what I seek - Conde said.

Then again recommended, as it had done before the chief of staff, secrecy
about its inquiry. For the official knew that the Count don Braulio
merely one month in Madrid, which enjoyed a salary of 3,000 pesetas,
less the discount, which had a reputation for excellent employee,
that would justify the work with the same minister entrusted to
him, he was a man of forty-five to fifty years of age, though older,
because he was quite bald and very Achacoso, that was just three
years of marriage, which had no children, his wife, Doña Beatriz,
and his wife's sister, called Inesita were a place in the province
of Cordova, where he had been Manager of Revenue, that soon after
the wedding he had moved to Seville to rise; in Seville and his
family had lived remote from the treatment of people, who now lived
on Olive Street, in the third floor of a house whose numbers also
gave him, and they were all so ferrets, which were treated only
with a soul living in Madrid.

ENTER Count all, returned to his meditations and calculations. Had taken
the first step, but it was necessary to give the second. Already knew who
was dealing with, but this did not achieve anything if used with wisdom
to communicate with Don Braulio and his family.

The Count was far from being an infinite harebrained. While not arredraba
any danger, although they do not have to venture you hurt your skin, always
feared a blow to lazy to do anything that might put you in snubbing and
ridiculous situation. This was more scared, not because of a naked sword,
but fifteen machine guns that were shooting at him. Given this, their
natural condition, the difficulties were not small. How to be present
in a house where no one in his class and perhaps no one nor any other,
came to visit?

What pretext claim of feet to fit in the house of that poor people?
The presentation is the most proper to meet and treat people, but
the Count was not the outrageous enough to be there.

¿Would write a ticket Love to enter into relationships? letters about
this genre, its use, usefulness, advantages and disadvantages, the Count,
who, as we have already said, was very circumspect and arranger,
had made its laws and made his considerations to Always striving
to adjust their behavior.

Escrever love for women seemed an excellent resource. Almost all give
more solemnity and importance to what they wrote as they spoke. Many
things that are offensive or blush if heard, weighed and the
Meditations, and delight them with loving delectation when read.

If a word trouserpress that the intended word, they are easy to
dodge the serious issues, taking it all a laugh.

It infuses the writing or, by contrast, almost inevitably seriously. Word
answer, leaving a glimpse of some word atom ray or glimmer of hope, just
committed. The word is vague, less than spiritual, through the air and
enters the ear while the lower trace. Even in the memory is erased and
is confusing. Perhaps his greatest claim, its most substantial significance
is not in itself, but in the accent they gave the fugitive a gesture that
was accompanied, in the smooth and quick look at an instant flash of the
eyes when the word came out of the mouth. As there is nothing written
about this. In writing, or gestures, or looks, or the voice can change
a word and give a momentary value that does not have. Although not more
than that, writing is comprometidísimo for women. The habit of writing,
however, is epidemic in the day, and are rare as women who write
for the public to assume when they are discrete or someone and write
them, they feel the most invincible one itching to answer, but only
to be showcased.

Once put in this slide is likely to slide. The same person who replied and
hermosea is magnified in the imagination, little is actually finds
him, because he is not present.

The fear of the danger is that talking about writing more, but also the
shame, shyness, modesty giving the sometimes easier to be alone and face
to face with the role of face to face with a man, perhaps surrounded
by women curious and people who are supposed to be maldicientes.

So many write; garments are loose and are committed at the end. If
there were statistics for the amorous entanglements, perhaps more than
half of them would be born that had the itch to write for women. All
this and thought I knew the count, but also thought that a prudent and
discreet man, who does not want to do a cadet, engages in some ways and
exposed to mockery, laughter and slight advances in the writing before
it reaches a certain period prior to the present occasion, before
having gone through certain formalities, before you have at least some
evidence that will be well received the first letter.

And neither married nor unmarried, or smiles, or looks, or getting candy
so indescribable, but unmistakable, the glances and smiles from him, had
given him reason to consider that one or the other or both were
already predisposed to receive the letter, he felt an absurd
temerity to write: what looked like an act of delusion student, as
an outburst of hortera or coffee boy, who in a county so discreet,
elegant and skilful as he; In a world of men, known in all the halls
of Europe, almost no forgiveness or apology.

For now, however, is not happening more ingenious way to communicate
with the Don Braulio Gonzalez. But what which of them would write? To Mrs
or Miss? Both resolutions were fraught with serious drawbacks. Neither
of the two women, valiéndonos a vulgar expression, had led to nothing.
Neither had excited, had encouraged him or watching him, or smiled at
him, nor had shown continued when angry, when almost stopped, as was
blatantly looking.

The most glacial indifference had appeared in both women. Been so dignified,
so severe, so natural, so without fuss or shocking it is vulgar to female
or presumed to be so honored, as if two duchess or princess who had the
whim to go out at night to walk the streets and have seen, leading for
a few minutes, for an evil servant and lackey vain enough to believe
seductor.

The Count, however, perhaps because it did, perhaps because self-love
deceived him, had thought out, in imperceptible gestures in the
gesture, something that had not been able to see and could barely
be seen but not evaluated by an understanding as subtle as yours
and so expert in the affairs that he had been married less indifferent
and more conducive, and that be guessed at her face the happy,
satisfied the vanity of being followed by a couple and as gallant
as principal, and looked up to him once or twice in passing and
dissimulation, with curious sympathy.

¿would write, then, the married ? But what was right for this? What would
you say? What if the husband was jealous and took the letter? Do not
set out from the beginning to impede or hinder the future and greatly to
the success of his adventure? Count abandoned, therefore, write to
the married. The maiden seemed more beautiful and more distinguished,
but was against enojadísimo she. There does not forged illusions: it did
not was obvious. Inesita had not made his case more than one dog.
Failed to explain this calm Olympics, that soft-endian, which is
reconciled by a strange contrast with the humility and
modesty, the Count was to be suspected if Inesita idiot, but remember her
eyes, her graceful gait and intelligent expression his beautiful face,
and had to confess that, or he did not know what they were women
or Inesita was as unobtrusive as it was born of a mother.

How, then, to write Inesita? This was more difficult to write to Doña
Beatriz. Incurred no hypocrisy here in the foolish Presumably, when you
write a story, a moral society is much higher than they actually have. Say
it like it is. It is singular, it is not logical, it's absurd, but what
happens next. It is so in the customs and practices that any gentleman
say his bold thinking a married woman, it is rarely offend. It is
virtuous to be limited to sweetness with disappointment or reject the
suitor. Will not be offended, when in fact you had proposed a breach of
moral law, civil and religious, his shame and his home, and perhaps the
vileness of a theft of property, if you have a child. Instead, just be
single, as it is not completely lost, not regarded as insulted if you
ask it to presuppose love without marriage in a explicit or implicit
and, in fact, the lack at that time was the lead single would be much
smaller that was intended for married. The single, free, not to deceive
her husband, not missing any promise not to expose anyone for a
legitimate heir who should not be.

This is true. There is no argument that it can assert against. And yet,
just be seducer by brutal, irreverent and removed whatsoever ose to a
single claim, without offering fin_ _The good: and there is little Tenorio,
by puny, GY and fehuelo God or the devil you have, tient not the ford,
declaring with boldness and uninhibited dares to claim any of a married
woman. Our hero, without getting into philosophical about this, I had
only known. So, by this consideration, though not addressed to others,
found it more difficult to write Inesita that doña Beatriz.

Write to doña Beatriz, as married, use, practice, established case law,
it consented to proceed by without injury.

Write to Inesita, however, could not be disregarded without vejarla
and cruelly, as the Count did not tell or give rise to an understanding
that wanted to marry her. However, the Count nor love, nor think of
marrying anyone , much less with Inesita just wanted to hang out, but the
Count was also their morals, and there was no time for it to be good,
he deserved to be reduced to lie and deceive a girl, making believe that
could marry her. Thus, the Conde withdrew doña Beatriz write for
reasons of prudence and strategy amatory, and withdrew to write Inesita
more delicate considerations. But why not abandoned them and treat them
to two.

Thinking and let him run the most sensible of this, and we adelantémonos,
penetrating invisible in our house and heroines known before the
Count.

IV The most able and judicious critic, perhaps, among those who are
in Spain and I have two or three times to try other novels of mine a
favor and disfavor do not believe that merit, but if I deserve this
time away to amend, incurs more fully than ever in its censorship,
that otherwise I lisonjea.

Implies that the critic all my characters are me, which makes me a
Proteus, as I have very different characters portrayed, and assumes
that all speak the same situation as I talk with erudition, discreet
subtleties and philosophical spirit of unfit his humble status and
even sex, since women often spend _mis of listas_.

In this story, where the title indicates, the most important characters,
each on its own style, ranging from ready to go, sin, without being
able to remedy, against what the critic wants.

The blame, if any, because I refuse to declare themselves guilty,
is in the choice of subject.

Already chosen, I have no choice but to make my heroes, each retaining
its nature, its passions and its unique appearance, at most discrete,
subtle and ready and that I know can, because this has to be the
greatest failing of all of them, and all of them, the protagonist
of the story.

I make this statement here to doña Beatriz, who soon heard about
my readers, do not take off.

Doña Beatriz was listísima. I do not remember in which book, treaty
or epistle of the Old or New Testament, says that _The spirit blows where
quiere_: sentence with which it is sufficient to justify on the plausibility
of the spirit, or is God ora is evil, and had penetrated the blow
of being a girl of twenty-two years, which had no doña Beatriz,
born and raised in a place in the province of Cordova.

There is also another sentence macaroni, full of truth, which reads
as follows: _Quod natura non dat, non proestad_ Salamanca, which
can be inferred, as logically, that Mother Nature has no need of
Salamanca, or Tell studies of deep World of treatment and long,
very subtle and to understand those who like to foster, even if
they are women, and women of the place.

This issue was doña Beatriz, which, on its innate clearance, although
there was no studied in any college, had some knowledge acquired
in the common conversation of her husband Don Braulio, who enjoyed
a reputation of very enlightened subject, but had only 3000 pesetas
yearly salary.

It was evident he thought I could be one of the romantic.  He looked at
me for the first time, twisting the cord of his eyeglass with his finger
and thumb in a fastidious way, and I thought his glance was to dissipate
some doubt he had that he ought to be speaking to me at all.  He dropped
the cord suddenly as if letting go his reserve, and said slyly, with a
grave smile: "Perhaps the romantic think the unknown is worth looking
into because it may be better than what they know.  At Tabacol I used to
think the unknown country beyond it looked even duller than usual.  There
was a forest, a river, a silence, and it was either day or night.  That
was all.  If the voice of Nature is the voice of God. . . ."

The landlord was observing in surprise this conversational excursion by
his old friend, as if it were altogether new to him.  He laughed aloud,
and, putting a consoling hand on his friend's shoulder as he rose, he
told us he must leave us for a few minutes, for he had business.  "Look
more cheerful before I get back, Doctor."

The doctor chuckled, and stretched across to give his gloves a more
satisfactory position on his hat.  "I don't understand what it can be
that attracts people to such a place.  Young men, maybe yourself even,
wish to go there.  Isn't that so?  Yes.  I've met such men in such
places.  Then they did not give me the impression that they were
satisfied with their romance.  Impossible, of course.  Romance is never
in the place unless we put it there, and who would put even a sentimental
dream into such a hole as Tabacol?  Tropical squalor.  Broken people!
I've never seen romance in such a place, and don't expect to. . . ."

Several cabs, on their way to a ship outward bound, made an increasing
noise in the night, rattled by on the cobbles outside, their occupants
roaring a sentimental chorus, and drowned what the doctor was saying.

". . . folly.  Worse than folly."  He was holding his gloves now, and was
lightly flicking the edge of the table with them in place of verbal
emphasis.  He suddenly regarded me again as if he strongly suspected me
of being his antipathy.  "Who but a fool would take a woman to such a
country as that?  Any romantic sentimentalist, I suppose.  I forget the
name of the ship.  There was, you might say, hardly sufficient room to
paint a name on her.  She was no more than a tug.  It was a miracle she
survived to get there at all, for she had crossed from England.  Crossed
the Western ocean in such a craft, and brought a woman with him.  Did
ever you hear of such folly?"

Now I was certain of our whereabouts, and felt a weak inclination to show
an elder that I, too, knew something about it; but when I leaned forward
eagerly and was about to speak, the doctor screwed in that devastating
monocle, and I felt I was only a curious example of the sort of thing he
especially disliked.  For a minute, in which I wondered if I had quite
stopped his guarded flow, he said no more.  Then he addressed his
eyeglass to a panel of the partition, and flicked his gloves at that.

"I had noticed for some days that little craft lying near us, but gave
her no attention.  I had sixteen men to attend to with complexions like
lemons, and one died.  There was no time to bother with other folk's
troubles.  Our skipper, one breakfast-time, told me there was a woman
aboard that little thing, and he'd been asked whether I'd go over.  She
was ill.

"I've seen some queer packets of misery at sea, but never one that
touched that ship.  Her skipper seemed a regular fool.  I had to ask him
to speak up, for he mumbled like a boy who has been caught out, and knows
it is useless to pretend.  I learned from him that he was only just
beginning his voyage.  You understand?  He was just beginning it, there.
He was going up-river, to a point not on the chart.  I cannot make out
now whether he wanted to put that woman ashore to get home in comfort at
the first opportunity, or whether . . . it's impossible to say.  One
would sooner believe the best of another man, with half a chance.  After
all," said the doctor bitterly, "as long as the woman survived I suppose
she was some consolation in misery.

"I scrambled over the deck lumber.  There was hardly room to move.  I
found her in a cabin where she could get little seclusion from the crew.
Hardly any privacy at all, I should say.  As soon as I saw her I could
make a guess . . . however, I told the fellow afterwards what I thought,
and he gave me no answer.  He even turned his back on me.  He must have
known well enough that that river was no place for any sort of white
woman.  He was condemning her perhaps to death just to make an ugly job
more attractive.

"I admit," said the doctor, with a sly glance, "that she could make it
attractive, for a sort of man.  She was wrapped in a rosy dressing-gown.
She held it together with her hands.  I noticed them . . . anybody might
. . . they were covered with rings.  She had character, too.  She made me
feel, the way she looked at me, that I was indiscreet in asking personal
questions.  I could see what was wrong with her.  It was debility, but
all the same the beginning of an end not far off, in that country.

"'You'll have to get out of this,' I told her.

"'Can't be done, Doctor,' she said coolly.

"'It can.  A liner for England will be here in another week, and you must
take it.'

"'I don't,' she said.  She was quiet enough, but she seemed a very wilful
woman.  'I've got my job here.'

"I told her that the skipper of her ship would never carry out his
orders, because they could not be carried out.  I told her, what was
perfectly true, that their craft would rot on a sandbar, or find
cataracts, or that they'd all get eaten by cannibals, or die of something
nasty.  I admit I tried to frighten her.

"'It's no good, Doctor,' she said.  'You can't worry me.  I've got my
work to do in this ship, like the others.'

"'Pooh!' I said to her.  'Cooking and that.  Anybody could do it.  Let
the men do it.  It's not a woman's job.'

"'You're wrong,' she said.  'It's mine.  You don't know.'

"I began to get annoyed with this stubborn creature.  I told her she
would die, if she didn't leave the working of that ship to those who
ought to do it.

"'Who ought?' she asked me, in a bit of a temper.  'I know what I have to
do.  I'm going through with it.  It's no good talking.  I'll take my
chance, like the rest.'

"So I had to tell her that I was there because the master of her ship had
sent for me to give my advice.  My business was to say what she ought to
do.

"'I don't want to be told.  I know,' she said.  'The captain sent for
you.  Talk to him.'

"My temper was going, and I told her that it was something to know the
captain himself had enough sense to send for me.

"'Look here,' she told me.  'I've had enough of this.  I want to be
alone.  Thank you for troubling to come over.'"

The doctor lifted his shoulders, and made a wry face, that might have
been disdain or pity.

"I was leaving her, but she called to me, and I went back.  She held out
her hand.  'I do thank you for troubling about me.  Of course I do.  But
I want to stay on here--I must.'

"'Well, you know the penalty,' I said.  'I was bound to tell you that.'

"'What of it?' she said, and laughed at me.  'We musn't bother about
penalties.  Good-bye!'

"I must say she made me feel that if the skipper of that ship had been of
different metal, she might almost have pulled him through.  But what a
man.  What a man!  I saw his miserable little figure standing not far
from where my boat was when I was going.  He made as if he were coming to
me, and then stopped.  I was going to take no notice of him, but went up
and explained a thing or two.  I'll bet he'll remember them.  All he said
was: 'I was afraid you'd never change her mind,' and turned away.  What a
man!  There was a pair for you.  I could understand him, but what could
have been in her mind?  Whatever made her talk like that?  That's the way
of it.  There's your romance of the tropics, and your squalid Garden of
Eden, when you know it.  A monotonous and dreary job, and a woman."

The landlord returned.  The monocle fixedly and significantly regarded
me.  "Have another, Doctor," said the landlord, pointing to the empty
tankard.  "How long were you in Macassar?"  The doctor turned briskly to
his old friend, and began some chaff.


4

Ferguson, who had just come into port with a damaged propeller shaft, was
telling us how it was.  This was his first expansive experience, and
there could be no doubt the engine-room staff of the _Torrington_ had
behaved very well.  The underwriters had recognized that, and handsomely,
at a special meeting at Cornhill.  Though Ferguson was young for a chief
engineer, his professional elders, who were listening to him, showed some
critical appreciation of the way he solved his problem.  He was sitting
at a table of the _Negro Boy_, drawing a diagram on it, and they stood
round.

"There.  That was where it was.  You see what we had to do.  It would not
have been so bad in calm weather, but we were labouring heavily, all the
way from Savannah.  Our old man did not think it possible to do it.  But
it was no good waiting for something worse to happen."

The matter grew too technical for me.  There was cargo jettisoned, and
ballast tanks emptied aft.  The stern of the _Torrington_ was lifted so
that her propeller at intervals was clear.  Ferguson then went overside
on life-lines.  When he was not submerged, he was trying to put his ship
right again; and when he became exhausted, one of his colleagues took his
place, to see whether, while escaping drowning, he could continue the
work of salvation.  They all escaped, and the _Torrington_ put back to
Tampa for repairs, which her own engineers accomplished.

The demonstration was over, and Ferguson's story was lapsing into general
gossip.  The party of men began to dissolve.

"Who do you think I saw at Tampa?" Ferguson asked Macandrew.  "Old Purdy."

"What?" cried Macandrew.  "Is he alive?"

Ferguson laughed.  "Just about.  What's he been doing?  I thought he had
chucked the sea.  It was in the Customs Office.  I'd been there to make a
declaration, and in one of those long corridors there he stood, all
alone, with his hat in his hand, perhaps cooling his head.  I hardly knew
him.  He's more miserable than ever."

"Did he say anything?" asked Macandrew.

"About as much as usual.  I didn't know him at first.  He seemed rather
ill.  The temples of that high forehead of his were knotted with veins.
It nearly gave me a headache to look at him."

Elbows. I say Gracious Lord, I myself detestire both them that this house
if it is not an H ** house, so I daurt their lives, because it is a bad
house. Escalus. And how would you have it ? Ellbogen. Sapperment, Gracious
Lord, from my wife, which, if a woman would be that the cardinals
* nachhienge luster, in this house in Hurerey, adultery, and all
impurities can Gerath had. ed (-* It hardly needs Note that the
error has elbows, like einzumengen Latin words, he does not quite
matter, he says detestiren for attestiren, Cardinal for Carnal.
respectirt for suspect, etc.)

Escalus. Through these women feed? Ellbogen. Yes, Gracious Lord, by
Mrs. feed overdone, but they play him in the face, as he - Harlequin.

With your permission graces, it is not so. Ellbogen. evidence to proof
it against these rogue, thou man of honor! Prove it. Escalus. Do you hear,
as he promised? Harlequin. Gracious Lord, they went with the child when
she came into our house, and had (with Respect before your grace to say)
a Gelust after gebratnen plums, Gracious Lord, we had only zwey in the
home, and were just about the same time, as encountered in a Confect
plate, a plate of three or four pennies; want your graces have also
seen this dish, there are no porcelain plate, but very good dish.

Escalus.

Continue further, it is not located on the plate - Harlequin. No, not
in That, Gracious Lord, in your grace has Stük quite: But to the point,
as I said, this madam Ellbogen went with the child, and had, as I said,
already a rather large belly, and lust, as I said, after plums, and
there were only zwey on the plate, as I said, for this gentleman of foam
here this Junker, who is here, had eaten the rest, as I said, and he
paid for it honestly, I must say, because, as you know, Junker
foam, I could not you give three cruisers - Foam. No, That the.
Harlequin. Seyn That must be true, it just WARET out if you still remember
the example of the stones of plums aufzuknaken. foam. Yes, that I, as
That. Escalus. Fort, its a boring fool Seyde , to the point, what that
man's wife because his elbow that he has cause to complain? Come
on, what it that. Harlequin. Gracious Lord, Your Grace can not
yet to come. Escalus. That is not my intention. Harlequin. But your
grace is to come, with your permission graces, and I ask you , look
again at these Junker foam, Gracious Lord, a man of eighty pounds
a pension from the year of his father to all the holy day has died. Was
it not all saints day, Junker foam? Foam. All Saints Eve. Harlequin.
Well, well, I hope this is a man you must believe. He just sat, Gracious
Lord, as I said, in a low chair, Gracious Lord, it was in the Grapes,
where you in the That so happy to sizen maintains; is not it? Foam.
It is so because it is a pretty open office, and good for the
winter.

Harlequin. That is spoken, as it must, I hope, here is a man of faith will
be. Angelo. This is a Russian auswähren night, when the nights are the
longest. I will leave it to you, the thing to investigate in the hope
that you will find good cause, they give everybody the Staupbesen
to leave. (Geht ab.) Third Scene. (The former.) Escalus. Well,
Monsieur , primarily, was that one woman elbow? Harlequin. What is it
that, Gracious Lord? Nothing, nothing, with your permission graces.
Ellbogen. I beg your graces, asks him what this man here has done to
my wife? Harlequin. I beg your graces, ask me. Escalus. Good Lord,
then it was that this gentleman? Harlequin. I beg your graces, schauet
this gentleman's face; Junker foam, see the Merciful Lord, it happens
for no evil intent; seen your graces his Physionomie? Escalus. Yes, sir,
very well. Harlequin. Well, I ask you, just want to observe it.
Escalus. The thu me. Harlequin. Kan graces your village Why do
so many in them something dangerous? Escalus. No. Harlequin. Now I
want to swear on a book that his face the worst thing in his whole person
is ; Well then, if his face the worst of it is, how could JKR.

Foam elbow wife anything thun? I would like to hear of your graces.

Escalus. He was right, Mr. Commiß what it says about this?

Ellbogen. For now, the house, with your permission graces, a respectirtes
house; Zweytens, this is a respectirter lad, and his wife a woman respectirtes.
Harlequin.

Bey this hand, Gracious Lord, his wife is the person under
respectirteste us all. Ellbogen. Rogue, you lie, you lie, you scoundrel
you, the time is yet to come, as they ever with a man, woman or child had
respectirt - Harlequin.

Gracious Lord, he was with her respectirt; eh he heurathete. Escalus. Is
this true, elbows? elbows. Galgenschwengel O thou! O villain! thou
wicked Hannibal! I, respectirt with her, I heurathete eh?

If I ever respectirt was with her, or she with me, let Your grace I am not
for the poor duke's officers kept evidence there, thou wicked Hannibal,
or I want Injuries-Actie employ against you.

What is your grace command that I do with this wicked gallows boys
begin? Escalus. Seriously, Mr. Commiß because he is a different and has
given the village Why do so many like you want if you could, let him go
his way, until you has what it is. Ellbogen. Sapperment I thank
your grace before, because you see, you easily finished Rogue,
where it goes with you, you can only make so forth, you scoundrel,
you can only make so forth - Escalus (on foam).

Seyde Where you born, good friend? foam. Here, in Vienna. Escalus. Have
you eighty pound pension, sir? foam. Yes, with your permission graces.
Escalus.

Sunday (For Harlequin) what is your profession, Meister - Harlequin.

Bierzapfer A, a poor Wittfrauen Bierzapfer. Escalus. How is your wife?
Harlequin. Mrs. overdone. Escalus. Did they have more than one man had?
Harlequin. Nine, Gracious Lord, was the last overdone. Escalus. Nine?
stand closer to her, Junker foam; Junker foam, I do not like that with
her Bierzapfern Seyde so well known, they draw you from your money,
Junker foam, and it brings them to the gallows. Go your way, and let
me not hear from you. Foam. I thank your grace, I am for my Theil never
in any pub sat, not because I had been dragged. Escalus. Genug, and
nothing more of this kind , Junker foam, you probably had. - (Geht ab
foam.) Fourth Scene. Escalus. Come to me, Master Bierzapfer, what is
your name, master Bierzapfer? Harlequin. Pompey. Escalus. Meister Pompey
their Seyde a Stük by a H ** Wirth, whether it is just behind the
Bierzapfer versteken want.

Seyde it's not? Come, tell me the truth, it is not the worse you go.
Harlequin. In good Ernst, Gracious Lord, I'm a poor guy who likes to
live. Escalus. How do you live, Pompey?

From the H ** Wirth shaft? What seems to you this Handthierung?

Is it a gesezmäßige Begangenschaft? Harlequin. Gesez If they allowed
Gracious Lord. Escalus.

Gesez But they are not allowed, Pompey, which should never come in Vienna.
Harlequin. Has your graces, perhaps in the sense that all young people
in the blend to leave town? Escalus. No, Pompey. Harlequin. Truly, Gracious
Lord, they shall be, in my simple Meynung not refrain from Seyn if
your graces the H ** lüders man and people will fight back, ye have not
the Nöthiger couplers and coupler inner fear. Escalus. There are nice
stations in the factory, it is just heads and hanging on thun. Harlequin.
if you only ten years after each other, all come together in this Stüke
miss, behead and hang you, you will her in times of Commission for more
heads to be provided when this toes Gesez years in Vienna is held,
so I want the nicest house in the town for three floors cruiser Miethe,
if you lived so long, the experience, says, Pompey you've predicted.
Escalus. Grossen Dank, Pompey, and to your Propheceyung to erwiedern,
so I say unto you hiemit also, let me no more claim against you
hear what it Seyn mag, not even over extended stay in the house
where you been Seyde, I hear the least Pompey, so I want you in
your warehouses back beat, and a strict Seyn Caesar against you,
honestly speaking, Pompey, would have deserved it, that I have a
little abpeitschen could, and hiemit, Pompey, you had to dißmal well.

Harlequin.

I thank your good graces for the Rath, I will follow him, as the fate, and
flesh and blood will make it possible - (for themselves) Sapperment!
Dapfrer A man can not immediately whip out of his craft. (Geht ab.)
Fifth Scene. Escalus. Hieher Come to me, Master Elbow; comes forth, Mr.
Commis; how long it is that this office in their neighborhood euerm
managed? elbows. Seven and half year, Gracious Lord. Escalus. I thought
after of your skill in this office to urtheilen, it would have already
driven a good time. Seven whole years, says you? Ellbogen. And a half,
Gracious Lord. Escalus. There is a lot of effort you have done, my
good man, and Meyn is not well with you, that you so often they will
endeavor, because it has no People in euerm parish, which would be in a
position to provide it? elbows. My faith, Gracious Lord, not many of the
mind to have such transactions if they are elected, it's always them
a favor, if the service I provide for them, they pay me for this, so I
just order the Office for all.

Escalus. You see, gives me the names of six or seven, the fitness
in the parish are euerm.

Ellbogen. In graces your house? Escalus. In my house, God forbid you. (goes
from the elbow.) (For Judges .) How much do you think that is Gloke?
judges. Eilfe, Gracious Lord. Escalus. I beg you, come with me to the
lunch meal. judge. I thank your grace unterthänig. Escalus. I am
heartily sick Claudios about death; but it is not to help. judge. The
Frey Mr.

Angelo is severe. Escalus.

It is only too Nöthiger; goodness stops there Seyn if it ever makes the
same mine, and indulgence is always the mother of new crimes. And yet,
- poor Claudio! It is not to help! - Follow me, sir. (Walking from.)
Sixth Scene. (The jailer, a servant.) Serves. Giebt He Partey only one
hearing, he will come: I want to tell him that Seyde here. jailer. I ask
you, does it, I would like to know what his will is, perhaps it back
to frey - Oh! He has little more than a dream gesündiget all levels, all
age smell after this truck - and he should die for. (Angelo to the
former.) Angelo. Well, what it giebt, jailer? Jailer.

Is it your grace will that Claudio should die tomorrow? Angelo. Say 'I do
not know, yes? Did you not command? What do you need to ask again? Jailer.
For fear, I would like to quickly Seyn.

With your permission graces, I've already seen the case since the judge
after the execution of Urtheil would like wiederruffen. Angelo. Thu thou
thy duty, and let my concern Seyn; thu your duty, or gieb on your
office, and it give you no more trouble made. jailer. I ask 'unterthänig
for forgiveness, Gracious Lord - And what should I do with the winselnden
Juliette start? She is very close to their confinement. Angelo. Bring
it to a convenient location, and the delay. The Serves. Gracious Lord,
here is the sister of verurtheilten Manns, and invites before your grace
to be abandoned. Angelo. Does he have a sister? jailer. Yes, Gracious Lord,
a very virtuous young person who is in a monastery woman, if it
is not already.

Angelo. Well, let them come inside. (servant goes anyway.) Makes it before
that whore in another place would be, let it merely the nothdürftige,
and no superfluous entertainment type, it should therefore command
ertheilt be. Siebende Scene. (Lucio and Isabella, to the former.) (jailer
wants to cede.) Angelo. remains slightly - (At Isabella). Seyde welcome,
what is your desire? Isabella. I am a troubled person who receives a
request to your graces thun want if you really listen to me. Angelo.
Well, what is your request? Isabella. There is a truck that I hate
from the heart, which I wish to see punished, and for which no intercession
thun I would if I would not. Angelo. Well, to the point. Isabella. I
have a brother of death verurtheilt is, I beg you, let the Urtheil to
his crimes, and not on my brother fall. jailer (leise.) The sky will give
you the grace, to touch him, Angelo. verurtheilen The crime and not the
Thäter? Every crime is already verurtheilt, anyway it is done. What would
my office Seyn if I would find the crimes for which the punishment Geseze
have determined, and could go Thäter? Isabella. O! just too tight though
Gesez! - So I have no more brother - (Will Forte you go.) Lucio (leise.)
Gebt not equal to, tried it again, asking him to fall on his knees, hang
out at his Rok ; Seyde it is too cold, if it has Steknadel Nöthiger would
have, could you they do not have any kind of indifferent demand. Once
again, to him, tell me. Isabella (to Angelo.) Must he necessarily die?
Angelo. Girls, this is not a means. Isabella. Hey yeah, I think it might
befall him grace can neither heaven nor the people disapprove it,
if you mercy before the law can go. Angelo. but I will not. Isabella.
Could you, if you wanted to? Angelo. Look what I did not want to I
can not. Isabella. But it could you thun, without that the world would
have an injury like this, if your heart is the pity of mine against him
felt? Angelo.

Urtheil is being spoken, it is too late. Lucio (leise.) Your Seyde
too cold. Isabella. Too late? Why? no, I can yes wiederruffen a word that
I have spoken: Believe only the king adorns his Crone, the governor's
Schwerdt, the marshal's staff, and the judge Rok not half so much as
mercy; wäret her at his Plaze and he had to euerm, you would have
gestrauchelt, as he, but he would not have been so severe Seyn. Angelo.
I beg you, go. Isabella. Wollte the sky, I had your power, and you would
Isabella, it should not so Seyn. Lucio. Only further - this is the
right tone - Angelo. Gesez This has euern brother verurtheilt all your
words are wasted. Isabella. Oh! Gracious heaven! how? All souls had once
sinned, and were from Gesez verurtheilt. But, with the best of it was
quite tight, there was an allotted. If he wanted to direct you as you
Seyde? O! thinks of this! and grace will be equal to the neuerschaffnen
people from euern lips Athmer. Angelo. Gebt you happy, beautiful girl,
the Gesez verurtheilt euern brother, not me. Wär 'he is my cousin,
my brother, my son, so würd' it can not otherwise be made; he dies
tomorrow. Isabella. Tomorrow? O! This is too fast. Schonet his, give him
time, he is not preparing to die.

We Toedter yes the poultry for our kitchen no more until it's time,
should we use the sky worse than the worst portion of ourselves? O! my
loving Lord, you remember: When one has ever died for DISS misdemeanors.
There are some who are perpetrators. Lucio (leise.) Well, well
spoken!

Angelo. Gesez That Todt has not been whether it has the same geschlaffen.
These (Some) were not covered to sin, when the first, the Gesez
transgressed, would have been punished. IZT, it's awoken, inquired of
what will be done, and looks like a soothsayer, in a mirror, all future
crimes, by a longer forbearance would cause, and not to any other
kind can be prevented, as if they before their birth are getödtet.

Isabella. Let's see at least some pity. Angelo. I can not it be better seen
than when I do see justice, because then did I even feel sorry for
those I do not know that I would not, that an unpunished crime they
did not succeed incentives, so the criminals themselves, of if it for a
wicked atone That must not live around the zweyte to celebrate. Give you
happy, your brother dies tomorrow, give you satisfied. Isabella. So you
must therefore first Seyn, such an Urtheil speaks, and he was the first
to suffer thereby.

O! it is superb, the strength of a giant to have, but it is tyrannical, it
is like a giant to use. Lucio (leise.) This is the most spoken. Isabella.
Could the big boom in the world like Jupiter, as Jupiter itself would
be no peace before them, because up to the lowest Officianten leather would
be a heaven for all his thunder do want. Nothing but thunder - loving
God! your hot schweflichter Keil fragmented prefer the hard and knottichte
oak as the gentle Myrrthe: O! only the man, the proud man, for many
Augenblike reputation in a little dress, forgets what he can know
some, its fragile nature, and plays like a monkey erboßen so fantastic
tricks before the eyes of heaven that the angels above cry, which,
if they had our spleen *, all mortal would laugh.

(ed -* The Old wrote a inordinate laughter of the size of the spleen to.
Warbürton.) Lucio (leise.) Continue on, girls - this is Würker - ways; the
point to him, I remember 'it. Jailer. Wollte God, she wants him to win!
Isabella. My brother, I should not weigh against you; big men may jest
with saints; Wiz is up to them what would little wickedness. Lucio. You're
right, girls, more like - Isabella. The captain is the only one hasty
word, what the common soldiers on a plate blasphemy is. Angelo. Why say
those things to me? Isabella. Because the most personable, whether it
is equal to the Irrthum just so much unterworffen than other people,
but always a kind of Bey Arzney carrying his offense once again zuheilt;
goes in yourself, knocking on euerm breasts, and ask your heart what
it is aware of my brother the error is similar, and if you at least
the ability admits, just as to sin as he, so he allowed no thought
of my brother lives on your tongue to drown.

Angelo (for itself.) She speaks with one mind, the mine überwältiget - Lebet
well - (he wants to go away.) Isabella. O! Gracious my Lord, "Turn back.
Angelo. I want to remember, come back tomorrow. Isabella. Hearken
but what I want to bribe you, my loving Lord," Turn back. Angelo. How?
Bribe me? Isabella. Yes, with such gifts that heaven will be with you
Theilen. Lucio (leise.) good, otherwise it would have spoiled everything.
Isabella. Not with gold or stones, which are only worth what the imagination
can they apply, but with innocent Intercessions, which ascend to heaven,
and through him to penetrate, the sun always rises again, with the
intercession of unbeflekten souls, by fasting virgins whose hearts are
not in a staggered geweihet. Angelo. Well, come again tomorrow. Lucio
(leise.) IZT goes, it's enough - gone. Isabella.

The sky get your graces healthy. At what time should I wait tomorrow your
graces? Angelo. Before noon, if you want. (Isabella's up with Lucio and
jailer.)

Eighth Scene.

Something had been
sighted ahead of us, and now was growing broad on the starboard bow--a
faint presentment of land, high and unrelated, for there was a luminous
void below it.  It was a filmy and coloured ghost in the sky, with a
thin shine upon it of a sun we could not see.  It grew more material as
we watched it, and brighter, a near and indubitable coast.  "I know
where I am now," said the skipper.  "Another minute or two, and we
should have been on the Manacles."

Smiling a little awkwardly, he explained that he had seen that old cap
on the floor before, without knowing how it could have got there, and
at the same time he had felt very nervous, without knowing why.  The
last time was when, homeward bound in charge of a fine steamer, he
hoped Finisterre was distant, but not too far off.  Just about _there_,
as it were; and that his dead reckoning was correct.  The weather had
been dirty, the seas heavy, and the sun invisible.  He went on, to find
nothing but worse weather.  He did sight, however, two other steamers,
on the same course as himself, evidently having calculated to pass
Ushant in the morning; his own calculation.  He would be off Ushant
later, for his speed was less than theirs.  There they were, a lucky
and unexpected confirmation of his own reasoning.  His chief officer,
an elderly man full of doubt, smiled again, and smacked his hands
together.  That was all right.  My friend then went into the
chart-room, and underwent the strange experience we know.  The same mayor
beat a retreat, leaving only the inspector general. Surprised and a
heart full of bitterness, Francisco was only in a bare and empty
room, listening to the heavy walking and laughter of the peasants who
hurried down the stairs and to receive half of that noise in these
words said with mocking voice "Very good!

¡Battered and no word, he has left in this proud Parisian Simon!
VII Driven by spite and by the vehement desire to know the cause of
such incomprehensible enemy Delaberge turn left the room. Since the
threshold of the hall, he saw Simon Princetot farewell to their
friends and slowly across the square. The inspector general will be
stepped up and reached under the lime trees and promenades. The couple
was walking with his hands in his pockets and his head tilted meditative.
Alone now, going away little by little pleased with the victory achieved.
Heat and irritations were iban leaving little place to a
more fair and balanced. Simon was accused of having blended his
personal rancor in a matter of business, perhaps compromising
the interests entrusted to him ... Nothing really had earned working
as a child kicking the stone that made you fall. His anger could
change anything in the unfortunate events that had led. Then, the same
as before, their disappointments remain the same.

What I observed yesterday, behind the birches near the port of the park,
not ceased to be a grim reality ... Mrs Liénard worried he was not
reserved for his rival and all your kind attention ... Felt the heart
filled with bitterness when recalling what he had seen the previous
evening in Rosalinda: the port was opened suddenly appear in her kind
and beautiful widow Delaberge towards his hand that he gave a gallant
kiss ...

While I felt irritated over his jealousy and his heart was bleeding
so painfully hideous souvenir heard near the hasty steps and the voice
of that same man who so hated. "Lord - Delaberge muttered, -
please give me a moment . Simon and turned a blaze of hatred
shone in his eyes, he knew, however, contained. Quietly, he headed for
a much more lonely cross street. - What do you want me? - Asked
crossing his arms. - I have found that the mayor has been left to
lead you passionate impulses rather cautious .. . Believe me you will
wait even two days before taking an extreme resolution ... I speak
now not as adversary but as a friend. - You're not my friend - the young
man replied harshly. - I want to be with all my heart and I am surprised
at your hostility.

However, I have given no reason to treat me as an enemy, since the
evening when we came back together for Rosalinda.

This reference to Rosalinda, far from calming Miguelina son, still
seemed to increase his irritation. - I hate dissimulation ! - .-- I
cried that day you promised to act fairly and justly for all users,
and you tricked me ... - Do not accuse me lightly! - Francisco answered
with a gentleness not impressed his interlocutor .-- I repeat that
I have already written to the minister and has no right to condemn you
without knowing how they did it ... Why do not you given me your
trust and I deny the day period to I ask - Why? - Simon replied, leaving
the heat carried away by youth could no longer contain .-- Because he
guessed their intentions, because I know what is proposed to delay
his imprisonment ... This allows you to extend your stay here and
increase their visits to Rosalinda! Delaberge watched him with profound
astonishment and again felt pain for the enemy that shone in his
eyes. - I am surprised - he said with an accent of reproach - that
you mix the lady Liénard in our discussion. - Ah - the young man
muttered sarcastically Princetot .-- Does this sound like a strange
...

Although you know conceal very well, know you dislike someone who
has seen his game and discovered the reason for its equivocal assiduously.
- My attendance there is nothing mysterious - said the inspector general,
raising his shoulders with indifference, and -- I have no reason to
hide when I go to Rosalinda. - But you hide out! - What I ... - Yes, you
... Yesterday afternoon you went to the park for a port ... Dare to
deny it! - Now I understand ... The signature Delaberge the incident
reminded that other more serious events had forgotten him,
recalled the flight of a man unknown through the fields and so it
seemed to Simon. It was like a ray of light that illuminated the
situation and made more intelligible to Delaberge the strange
behavior of the young Princetot ... The poor boy loved Mrs Liénard.
With the keen intuition of love, marriage guessed the purpose of
a newcomer who seemed suspicious and the demon of jealousy in his
heart bit.

Already ill-disposed against the intruder had monitored visits to
Rosalinda, had struck off the farm by a door that is not used much
by their owners and this ignited his soul in the violent feud
that just explode in furious Reunion of the municipality. A feeling
of deep sorrow, a painful pity filled the whole spirit of Delaberge
... Do not you need more to be the rival of his own son! What he had in
sensitivity generous numb for a long practice of selfishness and the
habit of living but not for himself, despertóse suddenly in his
heart.

Was well aware of their responsibilities and the most tragic situation
that was ... He felt a deep emotion that he was oppressing his chest
and his eyes moistened. - So - with insecure voice whispered -
that it was you who I spy ... - Yes, myself! - Simon said on launching
his interlocutor a look of anger and challenge. There was a moment
of silence, then Delaberge put his hand on the shoulder of the
young and replied: - My son - and felt like a bitter sweetness to
the lips to utter these words -- -passion has blinded him ...

Her suspicions are not based only on mere appearances, but from the
time that these appearances have been able to deceive you and make
you suffer, it is certain that I will have committed an offense ...
It grieves me deeply that my thoughtless conduct may have to mislead
them. Simón seemed bewildered by this confession of humility and
contemplated his interlocutor less hostile, although it still persisted
in their eyes and the, contraction of his lips a rest of distrust.
- I assure you - continued Francisco - I feel for the person we spoke,
a very affectionate estimate, but I do not think you or the court,
or marry her ...

You see that I speak to you frankly, you have me a little confidence and
Answer: Are you in love? Simon was troubled and flush colored his
cheeks ... a flush of young love seriously and is shocked to see the
shy discovered love religiously kept hidden. - Why this assumption?
- insecure babble. - Because - Delaberge replied, - it would be
unforgivable not the Espionage has been delivered to ...

Only passion can excuse ... You love to Mrs Liénard. Confused, the
boy dropped his head and sullen replied: - What you asked me right? -
With the right you gave me it as a rival who hates ... His dislike but
can not be explained by the blindness of jealousy, and for this reason
I repeat that you are in love with Mrs Liénard. - Are you teasing me?
- Simon muttered avoiding the gaze of Delaberge. -- No, talking
seriously with all my ...

At his age is a natural feeling and is not ashamed. - I am the only
owner of my thoughts ... I did not give anyone of them. - Not even
the lady Liénard - It was less than anyone ... If you are supposed
to be true, I swear they would never know it ... Do not let
that I can never suspect such a folly! - A madness ... Why are you
calling crazy - crazy to call an impossible love ... We are not her
and me a world of same ... sonrióse Francisco melancholically and spoke
thus: - These considerations do not usually carry much weight on the
heart of a woman who loves, and there is no reason for him not Camila
loves you.

You like her for the spirit and education, she is too intelligent not
to have appreciated its merits ... Be less modest and do not despair of
anything ... Anyway, after what I say because I have not seen you for
making me the slightest shadow. I do not have the enemy, and ask him
to wait a bit extreme to make a decision on the issue of boundaries
... Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow at the latest, I can certainly
communicate something that will show the injustice of his suspicions
... Goodbye ... And as if suddenly feared that he had betrayed the
excitement, the son suddenly alejóse Miguelina. VIII Delaberge few
hours after he penetrated into the woods and headed towards Rosalinda
very thoughtful.

They had no thoughts nor the lightness of the white cloud that were running
above the trees, nor the joy of flowers with notes of acute color dotted
the grass, but they were very serious and far-reaching. "Yes -
was saying - Miguelina deceiving: something can I have to do for
that boy is mine and whose fate separates me forever ...

I can give you the happiness with which dreams and despair to reach.
Mrs Liénard loves, and she is also inclined to sit love. That only
by pride, he feared the boy discover his tenderness, and she, too
respectful of certain social requirements, certainly to go their own
inclinations. Well, I can provide a link between these two hearts that
are willing and dare not confess. Are worthy of each other and
to enjoy such events as rare happiness: love in marriage. This is the
happiness I have I have given at least one good action on my pointless
existence. Consolaro in my solitude I think they are happy and,
although thin, this will be a bond between my son and me. "This idea
pleased him a little heart and meditating on all that lost his eye
in the remoteness of the forest ...

A dark green and clarity prevailed at the freshest place. The tiny
petals that surround the buttons before they've fully mature, emerging
from the twigs and fell to the ground as a fine rain, producing a
faint rumors, while a ray of sun did shine at times as if the dust
gold.

"Throughout my life - I thought Francisco - have been going down in the
past all my days, like those petals dry, without one generous act has
illuminated an instant. Now it will no longer be the case, as will a
ray of sunshine in my poor life.

"Just as the green will refresh the eyes, the idea that would work for
the happiness of Simon, she did not live only for themselves you
refresh the soul. This gave courage to speak to Mrs Liénard of these
delicate matters of sentiment, as dangerous as had been about to
love the woman with whom he is of them. Much has struggled to forget,
but could not conceal yet felt an inclination towards this tender woman
whose charm and tasty with plenty of cheerful spirit tenderly for a
moment had made his heart beat of fifty years.

In the perfumed air of the forest riente image Mrs Liénard it appeared
more attractive still, her eyes looked clear, her face pure and morbidity
of their velvety cheeks, the grace of his lips ... Seizes him a
deep melancholy to think that all these delicacies, all these female
suavidades of privacy had not been for him. A damp wind, which
occasionally moved the leaves seemed to rise and the depths of the
forest was muttering in his own ears: "It is not for you !...»
Suddenly, the presence of a young oak and robust, which rose to
the heavens its straight trunk, smooth and reminded him of his son Simon
and made him ashamed of his return to selfishness.

"Let us be strong - it was said then - if it did not cost you a sacrifice,
where would the merit of the event you are going to meet?

"threw themselves with such energy and fought valiantly with longing those
enternecimientos back. I wanted to appear before Mrs. Liénard, owner
completely of himself to make his words more persuasive and extract
a confession of his love for the young Princetot.

Hastened the passage as if the speed of the march had been stoking the
virtue of their burning and spur their will. A few minutes after
calling at the gate of Rosalinda and slightly beat in your heart
and a pallor on the face agonizing entered the room where the lady
Liénard. - Ah - it cried to him, - in the face you know that you
come to say goodbye ...

And when I say these words a sudden sadness turned off the merry smile
of his lips and eyes. - I do not know how to express - the couple
went on to say - I am saddened by how far the idea of her leaving.

While he spoke, his eyes were very clear and overshadowed cubríanse
a subtle moisture, so Delaberge realized that his words were quite
sincere. - I - Francis replied deeply shocked - I come to say
goodbye to you, probably leave tomorrow. - As soon!

... I have said, however, this morning that his conference with users
has not been anything good ... So will give up any hope of meaning
- That is not, what is there that has failed to provide users with a
little patience ... I have not yet received the reply of the minister,
but between us, I can tell you that I am almost sure to be successful.
- Thanks for the interest he shows us ... But it gives me a pain that
leaves you ... I was already accustomed to their good views, and I
can not imagine that this is the last ... Sit here, very close ...

I was talking with a tone so warm, almost filial, which was giving greater
aplomb Francisco to address the delicate question of who wanted to
talk. She sat beside him and told him and try to smile: - Before you
disagree, my lady, perhaps it would be good reanudásemos our conversation
yesterday ... Fear not as it should have fallen to the confidence
that you gave me such a great testimony ... Seeing my haste to leave,
then you accused me of indifference. There is nothing like that.
I thought, on the contrary, everything you told me and I have taken a
real interest in it. - Is it true? ... I am happy because I felt
ashamed of having spoken, but not me and I almost regretted having
been so thoroughly telling Rebull chimeras that in my crazy head.
- Is it that are but fantasies? Camila is Liénard blushes and opened
immensely beautiful eyes. Delaberge continued: - In this portrait you
did of her husband dreamed of, I think that imagination is not
everything ... There may be somewhere a being real in who you think ...
unconsciously, when I was listing the qualities of his ideal. -
No ... no, I assure you, I do not know ... - Well, this last night,
I thought in all this that I ended up reading very clearly at the
bottom of his heart. - Oops ... - murmured the lady take a joke
affecting .-- In this case, you would be much more clever that
myself ...

And what is it that you have read in my heart - try to explain it ...
We have found you to someone who is secretly attracted to it and
wholly worthy cree ... If you can not hear more than her own taste,
you spontaneously go into it ... But this young man ... because
he is young - he added with a little sadness - but is his equal on the
intelligence and the heart does not belong to the same class as you,
and is stopped by conventional scruples; you fear that your friends,
that people in their own society to condemn the election and condemn
it as an unequal marriage ...

IX Delaberge While he spoke, the lady had become a bit Liénard his face
and a poke of his hands nervously beautiful flowers in a vase I had
at your fingertips. branchlets started by an order of honeysuckle and
was slowly crumbling between his fingers rosados. - Be honest and
tell me if I read well in his heart. - I think ... yes - muttered
the widow look. - And now, do you wish to tell you the name of this
young man - no - whispered to him by lifting his eyes moist, after
aturdidamente added, with a vivacity that discovered in both its
content and its anguish: - You have seen ...

_El_ Who told you about me ... - No, too much pride to _él_ has
entrusted to a stranger as well. - ...-- Then impetuously exclaimed
Mrs Liénard .-- How could you guess?.

.. - Surely you know - he said smiling Delaberge - saying his country:
"Lovers do carry a plant whose scent embalming where the roads pass.
When my first visit, this perfume Rosalinda embalmed whole, and
to return to Val-Clavin, accompanied by Mr Princetot, guess who was
carrying the plant that bloomed for you. Blush covered the cheeks of
Mrs Liénard, her lips and smiled his eyes glittered with lights of dawn,
but could not articulate a word. For only answer, with gentle motion
of thanks to his two hands tended Delaberge, who observed a moment
between his. - I - went on .-- Simon Princetot I have some confidence
... My words have no other reason that the acute and sympathetic interest
I feel for you, my ... Let us now go back to their scruples. In fact,
if you doubt and hesitate to follow his own inclination, but not
by fear of what people have to say ... Camilla agreed to this with
all honesty. Although he lived very independently, having left no
relatives and friends of stale thinking, no doubt shocked. In
provinces, yet many people seem insurmountable barriers that separate
different classes of society, prejudices and prejudices persist more
strongly in Paris know each other too much to not be slaves to what they
will say. The day that they knew their relationship by marriage to the
son of an inn, would be disqualified and the vacuum around them ...
His first education and the influence of the environment had to
Delaberge own highly formalistic, was respectable and the worship
of the spirit of the hierarchy, and so well understood that the
scruples of the lady Liénard.

The time was three in the afternoon.  The children were at school, and
alone the men of the iron-yard made audible the unseen life of the
place.  We had the coffee-shop to ourselves.  On the counter a jam roll
was derelict.  Some crumpled and greasy newspapers sprawled on the
benches.  The outcast squeezed into a corner of a bench, and a stout
and elderly matron appeared, drying her bare arms on her apron, and
looked at us with annoyance.  My friend seized her hand, patted it, and
addressed her in terms of extravagant endearment.  She spoke to him
about that.  But food came; and as he ate--how he ate!--I waited,
looking into my own mug of tepid brown slop at twopence the pint.
There was a racing calendar punctuated with dead flies, and a picture
in the dark by the side of the door of Lord Beaconsfield, with its
motto: "For God, King, and Country"; and there was a smell which comes
of long years of herrings cooked on a gas grill.  At last the hungry
child had finished scraping his plate and wiping his moustache with his
hands.  He brought out a briar pipe, and a pouch of hairy skin, and
faded behind a blue cloud.  From behind the cloud he spoke at large,
like a confident disreputable Jove who had been skylarking for years
with the little planet Earth.

At a point in his familiar reminiscences my dwindling interest
vanished, and I noticed again, through the window, the house fronts of
the place I knew once, when Poplar was salt.  The lost sailor himself
was insignificant.  What was he?  A deck hand; one who tarred iron, and
could take a trick at the wheel when some one was watching him.  The
place outside might have been any dismal neighbourhood of London.  Its
character had gone.

The tap-tapping on iron plates in the yard next door showed where we
were today.  The sailor was silent for a time, and we listened together
to the sound of rivets going home.  "That's right," said the outcast.
"Make them bite.  Good luck to the rivets.  What yard is that?"  I told
him.

"What?  I didn't know it was about here.  That place!  Well, it's a
good yard, that.  They're all right.  I was on a steamer that went in
there, one trip.  She wanted it, too.  You could put a chisel through
her.  But they only put in what they were paid for, not what she
wanted.  The old _Starlight_.  She wouldn't have gone in then but for a
bump she got.  Do you know old Jackson?  Lives in Foochow Street round
about here somewhere.  He's lived next to that pub in Foochow Street
for years and years.  He was the old man of the _Starlight_.  He's a
sailor all right, is Jackson.

"The last trip I had with him was ten months ago.  The _Starlight_ came
in here to the West Dock with timber.  She had to go into dry-dock, and
I signed on for her again when she was ready.  This used to be my home,
Poplar, before I married that Cardiff woman.  Do you know Poplar at
all?  Poplar's all right.  We went over to Rotterdam for something or
other, but sailed from there light, for Fowey.  We loaded about three
thousand tons of china clay for Baltimore.

"The sea got up when we were abreast of the Wolf that night, and she
was a wet ship.  'We're running into it,' said old Jackson to the mate.
I was at the wheel.  'Look out, and call me if I'm wanted.'"

The man pushed his plate away, and leaned towards me, elbows on the
table, putting close his flat and brutish face, with his wet hair
plastered over all the brow he had.  He appeared to be a little drowsy
with food.  "Ever crossed the Western ocean in winter?  Sometimes
there's nothing in it.  But when it's bad there's no word for it.
There was our old bitch, filling up for'ard every time she dropped, and
rolling enough to shift the boilers.  We reckoned something was coming
all right.  Then when it began to blow, from dead ahead, the old man
wouldn't ease her.  That was like old Jackson.  It makes you think of
your comfortable little home, watching them big grey-backs running by
your ship, and no hot grub because the galley's flooded.  The Wolf was
only two days behind us, and we had all the way to go.  It was lively,
guv'nor.  The third night I was in with the cook helping him to get
something for the men.  They'd been roping her hatches.  The covers
were beginning to come adrift, y'understand.  The cook, he was slipping
about, grousing all round.  Then she stopped dead, and the lights went
out.  Something swept right over us with a hell of a rush, and I felt
the deck give under my feet.  The galley filled with water.  'Christ,
she's done,' shouted the cook.

"We scrambled out.  It was too dark to see anything, but we could hear
the old man shouting.  The engines had stopped.  I fell over some
wreckage."  The sailor stroked his nose.  "This is what it did.

"Next morning you wouldn't have known the old _Starlight_.  All her
boats had gone, and she had a list to port like a roof.  You wanted to
be a bird to get about her.  The crowd looked blue enough when they saw
the falls flying around at daylight, and only bits of boats.  It was a
case.  Every time she lay down in the trough, and a sea went over her
solid, we watched her come up again.  She took her time about it.

"The engineers were at it below, trying to get her clear.  They had the
donkey going.  In the afternoon we sighted a steamer's smoke to
westward.  She bore down on us.  I never seen anything I liked better
than that.  Then the Chief came up, and I saw him talking to the old
man.  The old man climbed round to us.  'Now, lads,' he said, 'there's
a Cunarder coming.  But the engineer says he reckons he's getting her
clear of water.  What about it?  Shall I signal the liner, or will you
stand by her?'

"We let the Cunarder go.  I watched her out of sight.  We hung around,
and just about sunset the Chief came up again.  I heard what he said.
'It's overhauling us fast, sir,' he said to the old man.  The old man,
he stood looking down at the deck.  Nobody said anything for a spell.
Then a fireman shot through a companion on all fours, scrambled to the
bulwarks, and looked out.  She is happy, because it has eyes, whose
beam delighted. How were they so bright? Through tears? no, otherwise
I would still be brighter. No, I'm ill like wild bears, animals
that are full of horror to me again.

What wonder, then, that Demetrius Just a tremendous need me flee?
Before mirror what could I forget With Stern eyes Hermias me to
measure? But what is this? Lysander, who is resting? Dead or sleeping?
But I see no blood. Lysander if you live, so listen! Awake!
Lysander (the awakening). Durchs fire I run, if it make you happy!
Verklärte Helena, so delicately woven that your heart is visible in
the bosom highlights!

Where's Demetrius? O of criminals! His name was vertilgt! This sword
thy avenger! Helena. Say not so, Lysander, say not so! Love your bride
he was: a well, are happy, you still love you always. Lysander. Oh
no! I like Reuters with its sluggish verlebte time! Not Hermia, Helena
is now my life, who wants the crow does not provide for the deaf? The
will is governed by the common sense: common sense tells me that the
price you deserve. Every thing must have time to tire; Sun ripened late
in me the spiritual gifts. Only now, because I'm the man target, if
the rationality of faith And it's me now love doing and being in
golden letters in your eyes to read.

Helena . Why was I chosen such scorn? I deserve it to you, that you are
torturing me? War's not enough, not enough, young man, that I did not
win a glance may not look a Hold of my loved ones, you need to
Spötterein I still grieve?

you do, indeed, you do not quite up to me, That you to me to jostle
you erfrecht. you had better!

Alone, I must confess, I believe 'in you to see more gallantry.

O that spurned by a man, a woman must serve the other for pastime! (Ab)
Lysander. Siehet Hermia you not only sleep .-- So always And is near
you but you never Lysander, as following the proliferation of Näschereien
The disgust maintains most hotly to be Like most heresies hate The once
infatuated, they turn to leave my excess! my madness! so I thee centrifugal;
you hate everyone, but at worst I .-- Now aiming for Helena, courage,
strength and sense, That I knight you, and you win! (Ab) Hermia (runs
on). hilf O, Lysander , help me! Seest thou not the snake, the breast
umflicht me? Woe to me! Mercy!
It is an event of the first importance to go for
a first voyage, though mine was to be only by steam-trawler to the Dogger
Bank; yet, as the event had come to me so late, I had lost faith in the
omens of London's foreshore, among which, at the bottom of Mark Lane, was
an Italian baking chestnuts over a coke fire.  The fog, and the slops,
and the smell by Billingsgate, could have been tokens of no more than a
twopenny journey to Shepherd's Bush.  I had believed in the signs so
little that I had left my bag at a railway station, miles away.

Three small steamers, the size of tugs, but with upstanding bows and a
sheer suggesting speed and buoyancy, were lying off the fish market, and
mine, the _Windhover_, had the outside berth.  I climbed over to her.
Blubber littered her iron deck, and slime drained along her gutters.
Black grits showered from her stack.  The smell from her galley, and the
heat from her engine-room casing, were challenging to a stranger.  It was
no place for me.  The men and porters tramping about their jobs knew
that, and did not order me out of their way.  This was Billingsgate, and
there was a tide to be caught.  They hustled me out of it.  But the
skipper had to be found, for I must know when I had to come aboard.  A
perpendicular iron ladder led to her saloon from a hatch, and through
unintelligence and the dark I entered that saloon more precipitously than
was a measure of my eagerness, picked myself up with a coolness which I
can only hope met with the approval of some silent men, watching me, who
sat at a table there, and offered my pass to the man nearest me.

It was the mate.  He scrutinized the simple document at unnecessary
length, and with a gravity that was embarrassing.  He turned up slowly a
large and weather-beaten sadness, with a grizzled moustache that curled
tightly into his mouth from under a long, thin nose which pointed at me
like a finger.  His heavy eyes might have been melancholy or only tired,
and they regarded me as if they sought on my face what they could not
find on my document.  I thought he was searching me for the proof of my
sanity.  Presently he spoke: "Have you _got_ to come?" he said, and in a
gentle voice that was disconcerting from a figure so masculine.  While I
was wondering what was hidden in this question, the ship's master entered
the saloon briskly.  He was plump and light.  His face was a smooth round
of unctuous red, without a beard, and was mounted upon many folds of
brown woollen scarf, like an attractive pudding on a platter.  He looked
at me with amusement, as I have no doubt those lively eyes, with their
brows of arched interest, looked at everything; and his thick grey hair
was curved upwards in a confusion of interrogation marks.

He chuckled.  "This is not a passenger ship," he said.  "That will have
to be your berth." He pointed to a part of the saloon settee which was
about six feet forward and above the propeller.  "A sou'-wester washed
out our only spare cabin, comin' in.  There you are."  He began to climb
the ladder out of it again, but stopped, and put his rosy face under the
lintel of the door.  "You've got twenty minutes now.  Get your luggage
aboard."

My bag was where it could not be reached in twenty minutes.  I'm so poor
and my father in prison, he is hungry. I have nothing but my instrument.
I take it and go into the business, until a little money I had. Go to
arrest my father, Give him the money he was delighted: "Now, he has not
hungry anymore." - Another acquisition, the gypsy violinist in the
trade to which he masterfully understands. Another main branch is the
woodcarving. Almost everyone can carve, the more, the other less well.
Any Gypsy comes with some really artistic investment in the world. One
often has a conspicuous talent and penchant for carving picture,
the other back to the drawing, etc. Thus, some acquaintances of mine
perfectly characterized, but neither read nor write. A brother of mine
had more talent for painting with colors, as for drawing. It would
be some learned »Decoration painter" from the countryside or smaller
towns Excel, without the slightest instruction is ever to have received.
He painted, among other things very nice theater curtain and the scenes
of his former "passenger Volkstheater," with what he puts on the economy
in villages halls idea existed. Finally, he and his family then string and
brass band with vocals! Just one of the above-mentioned good string
and metal musicians. Played, for example, »Genovefa" etc. Others learned
it only through this character without any talent or classroom instruction.
E.g. I could before I was 6 years old, a school before I even had seen
inside, as I hardly ever 3 ½ years in a school was already well-read and
write, my characters just by talent suggested. I drew the letters printed
in my name, they also carved into the wood, and so she learned to know,
read and write.

As good wood carvers manufacture gypsies with much hard work and
talent of all handmade, so tobacco and cigars, pipes, Zündholzsteine,
salad cutlery (knives, forks, spoons), hair jewelry, walking sticks,
etc. all decorated with beautiful carvings.

Significant provided herein is a cousin of mine, who is now 7 years
ago has died.

In Baden Württemberg Black and he sold his work and thus had a nice
earnings. Even today you can in those areas of his clean, original and
elaborate products, which the owners themselves to expensive
hergeben would not. The best I know wood carver, an artist is, was the
deceased in the year 1903 G. Winter. With the most primitive tools, he
really only manufactures a full art. He sold his expensive stuff, and
found even more customers.

None of the Gypsies living today gained so far re-skill in carving
such as this one. - Another Württemberg Gypsies possessed a special skill
is, crucifixes, hl. Effigies (statues) and violins, guitars to
manufacture. Even connoisseurs, his dexterity and skill recognition, so
he delivered some work in different institutions for religious
art. In Catholic areas, his saints-like figures and bought some and
at Church Street crosses the Christ, he was allowed to make. Once
played him and his art, but the belief in a certain area of the country
under an evil spreads. He was allowed because of the large cross at the
entrance to a sanctuary, the Savior carve. No sooner had he turned on
the cross, admired and praised by the pious visitors, then a few days
later, in a storm of lightning in the proposed cross i.e. only the cross
of Christ was completely torn off and smashed. As now the superstitious
rural population is even, this natural phenomenon of the poor devil
hard charger. It was a sure sign that God himself as its mind kundgab that
he was not of such a godless gypsies "made" wanted to be. Such talk is
heard after the event. The priest came, because he had given the order,
not even quite lenient away. The Gypsy was no more customers for its
"holy" and if they are still so beautiful and were artificially carved.
He therefore had to avoid this area. Of course he was not even
the new "God" that was from the Art Institute of Christian-related.
This could also Gypsies, as already said, perfectly crafted violins,
etc. do. Thus, he had always a virtue, he mostly just for the gypsies
even its instruments, but also in the largest cities and music acts, he
sold his often deceptively "impersonated" old master violins, where the
same then for serious money, as "genuine" or Steiner Quanari etc.
than by "lucky coincidence" came into possession of the man have
been brought.

Then a close relative of mine "Kohler" (Gypsy name; its right name:
Guttenberg, August), which is now almost totally blind, has also
established its reputation as a highly skilled sculptor, and he still
does, as halbblinder, yet very beautiful things. Among other things you
can work from him in the Museum of Ethnology (Division Europe) Basle,
see. After one of the main branches of the acquisition of the gypsy horse
trading. Pig dealer, the German gypsies never and have never been. They
are efficient and good horse lovers, giving them no one can deny. They
have and they know good, safe-looking cure for equine diseases. One
may still cry so much about "quackery", but it is so!

Also several art handles understand them, although not the buyer, but they
- to use. In describing this "guild secrets," which is here and on other
occasions, a large number there, I easily understood formance. Some
of the most famous horse-dealer with us, for example, the bezw. the
family (clan) »Schnurbein Michel" family name "Christian," Ever the
existing four brothers and their sons clan. Next »Gadscho" (Gypsy
name, real name: Lehmann), our current captain.

Both are by their horse-trading to a very nice wealth came.

Further still, Franz Reinhardt, and then across Prussia known family
Petermann, especially known them »Leidschi" (Gypsy name). Beautiful horses,
preferably several, beautiful, shiny dishes, decorated with tarnish and
nickel silver, brass, etc., the Gypsies his greatest desire and his
pride, and also applies to wealth.

Touching is the love, the Gypsy has for these animals. The last bite,
he shares with them. By contrast, he plasters the same against a curious
reluctance. From others, "_geheimnisvollen Berufen_," I will remain
silent, they are also so well known, so a description is unnecessary.
Even with an umbrella and boiler patching search it through life to
beat. The Hungarian gypsies are also still the gold laundry, smithery
and are eg very talented blacksmiths. These practitioners operate, the
German gypsies not. This attempt is ever possible in everything. The
field work, agriculture, they are not sympathetic to, but they often
reify recently, in the autumn for beet and potato digging and often even
try it today by beating Stein to earn a living.

Also available as a showman, actor, circus owner, signs singers, etc.
Tierdresseur looking for her advancement. So the old Reinhardt's really
well trained birds, canaries, finches, starlings, sparrows and larks.
This entails all sorts of tricks, all in freedom and with full flight
capability executed. A loaded gun shoot (of course, miniature # #) drag
car, as some passengers, coachmen, horses, etc. Also a pantomime, they
beautiful together. Next to the Gypsy Pfaus, who in halls and
schools have a trained ringed snake shows over 1 m in size has become,
it is usually through the buttonholes on his jacket pulled so that
the head, with the ever-moving Zünglein, like a giant needle on the top
of the tie-neck herausschaut. A miracle for the simple, foolish farmers,
such a harmless animal as toxic and harmful view and kill it where
it is one catch, for their own damage. He still trained ravens,
poodle and cat, all black as a devil, Mohr wanted to say sorry! All
four are eating, lick from a bowl, sleep together in beautiful harmony,
and no quarrel or dispute that has disturbed them. A picture certainly
very interesting for nature and animal lover. Also it always shows some
tame and originally trained hedgehog. The Gypsy Hock was acrobat, knife
swallowing, snake man, and magicians. Among other things, he also produced
as a "bullet-proof", the latter was his undoing.

He invited a pistol, showed the ball i.e. read them from the audience
to investigate the authenticity and the return interchanged them with
skill and unnoticed for that purpose always prepared just before ball from
Cichorie. Then he called one of the spectators, and gave him before
the eyes of all the loaded pistol in his hand, his chest bared to the
shooting. Has nobody to her, so he did it himself of course it hurt the
soft Cichorienkugel not. Usually caught in the same clothes, or fell to
the ground, where he then quickly and silently zertrat. Held the "real"
ball, but he either immediately after the shot on the ground or moved,
depending on from the shirt or the trousers, and showed them.

So once again he gave the presentation and invited also shot in a very
short distance to the artist. With a loud cry broke this dead together.
He had the ball not be confused, as in the first trick insiders believed,
but was rather a short pre-prepared ball (which took place afterwards
and was really soft), a forgotten in any case already made some time
Cichorienkugel erwischt that result the length of time, become hard
and firm and the chest was pushed into the heart. The two brothers
stone, which is an art water oscillator and produce fireworks, set to
their productions and performances always have the highest bridges
over rivers, or where no bridges are make them even from a high
scaffold ladders, where they down their art jumps, the body wrapped
with missiles, before the jump and set alight during the firing of
rockets, all sorts of difficult stunts and beautiful water very
elegant and agility run.

The elderly have twice broke the foot in this often dangerous "art leap
'! The younger is also one of the best Guitarrespieler and artists on
this instrument of our German Gypsies. A really great artist on the
guitar, no other gypsies before and afterwards surpassed Blach was the
Gypsies (Gypsy name: 'Gokkel. ") He played that whole opera excerpts. For
example, excerpts from "Il Trovatore" - "Martha" - "Undine", etc.
Just a celebrity on this instrument. I myself was it all possible:
showman, Rekommandeur, Dresseur, actor, horse traders, magicians,
impresario of the "Anitzka" the bearded lady, circus more »Art Arena"
- and musical and concert-director, art swimmer and athlete and
wrestler, now pursued by implacable fate only - peddlers. The Winter
Gypsy (Gypsy name: "Pants") , who with his brother and sisters had a
small circus, i.e. a Rondel and his business in nice condition had
occurred as a breast athlete Chain Sprenger, wrestlers, incidentally, even
with a trained, great apes and a horse a la # # "Hans" on. The monkey
was his downfall. It was quite dear, loyal friend to me. An honest,
kind, and despite his character bears only comfortable, good man.

That's why he admitted the encounter misfortune all the more regrettable.
He was, as always (in Sigmaringischen) one evening performance. Among
the spectators was a young lad, (a rocking boy and the son of a shop,
also on the square was built next to the Rondel of Gebr trousers) that
continually bothered by the idea of loud calls, nasty remarks, we noticed
that with violence to disrupt the presentation. Since he no reproof
heard, he was finally by my friend, the older shorts, short-hand for the
air shipments and we believed the case would be done. This was not so.
Namely, the monkey was mentioned among others, to train, while of
playing, from the inside Rondel (round canvas) is always around in circles
to run on his hind legs, standing upright, to prevent someone unbefugterweise
repeal the circular screen and watch for free. There was more to deter
the village youth and a damaging, cutting up the canvas to prevent. The
monkeys, a totally good-natured animal, stung the raw guy from the
outside through the screen pass through the knife into the body so that
he and screaming röchelnd fallen. In anger just now my friend jumped
out in order to punish the wrongdoer, or perhaps only, it noted. And
since this was disgusting, the crude pushed him the patron nor the blood
of the monkeys smoking knife into the heart, so I only saw it, as
though struck by lightning, crashed to the ground silently. The boy
disappeared into the darkness. The idea had came to an abrupt end.
Welfare of the offender escaped earthly justice, but a good, honest man
was no more. Despite these many activities, the gypsies in the rarest
of cases on a green branch.

In his sense of light, little to the "tomorrow" Concerned, he lives
only for the "today!"

Are all the means to an end, so long as he lives so carefree, until
he from hunger and thirst tormented, mainly in winter, the guest
of the dreaded gypsy more than once is ready, the difference
between "My" and "your" to be confused. But even in such unfortunate
situations, he loses his sense of humor and not take things easy on
the armpits, not what someone else just as easily find it. Even from
his youth to be all kinds of privations accustomed. Very often, narrow,
and chef Hans instead of a piece of pork fat and a good sip of brandy,
he is often only with water and Brod satisfied. What others even in
early youth can no longer deprived, until he learns often know very
mature age, such as told one of my "Kako" (Vetter) often as he is the
"Bibi" (aunt), his wife, shortly before their marriage, bought the
first shoes.

As they tried on shoes at a merchant, so she asked, as they had
attracted a shoe, quite desperately, "Kamlo Rome (husband) a I would
have to, now where is the other way?" The evidence so far that is said to
satisfy , (the following, it will still continue to prove) that the
gypsies - not only by begging and stealing to live!
The big mate appeared, yawned, stooped to examine a lashed
spar, did not give the sunrise so much as a glance, did not allow the
ocean to see that he was even aware of its existence, but went forward to
the bridge.

The clouds lowered during the morning, and through that narrowed space
between the sea and the sky the wind was forced at a greater pace,
dragging rain over the waters.  Our fleet might have been half a mile
away, and we could have gone on, still looking for it.  The day early
surrendered its light, a dismal submission to conditions that had made
its brief existence a failure.  It had nearly gone when we sighted
another trawler.  She was the _Susie_.  She was smaller than the
_Windhover_.  We went close enough to hail the men standing knee-deep in
the wash on her deck.  It would not be easy to forget the _Susie_.  I
shall always see her, at the moment when our skipper began to shout
through his hands at her.  She was poised askew, in that arrested
instant, on a glassy slope of water, with its crest foaming above her.
Surge blotted her out amid-ships, and her streaming forefoot jutted
clear.  She plunged then into the hollow between us, showing us the plan
of her deck, for her funnel was pointing at us.  Her men bawled to us.
They said the _Susie_ had sighted nothing.

Our engine-bell rang for us to part company.  Our little friend dropped
astern.  She seemed a poor little thing, with a squirt of steam to keep
her alive in that stupendous and hurrying world.  A man on her raised his
arm to us in salute, and she vanished.


4

The talk of our skipper, who began to be preoccupied and abrupt veered to
the subject of Jonah.  We should now have been with our fleet, but were
alone in the wilderness, and any course we took would be as likely as
another.  "This hasn't happened to me for years," he apologized.  He
stared about him, tapping the weather-dodger with his fingers, and
whistled reflectively.  He turned to the man at the wheel.  "Take her
east for an hour, and then north for an hour," and went below.

Day returned briefly at sunset.  It was an astonishing gift.  The clouds
rapidly lifted and the sky cleared, till the sea extended far to a bright
horizon, hard and polished, a clear separation of our planet and heaven.
The waves were still ponderous.  The _Windhover_ laboured heavily.  We
rolled over the bright slopes aimlessly.  She would rear till the forward
deck stuck up in front of us, then drop over, flinging us against the
dodger, and the shock would surround her with foam that was an eruption
of greenish light.

The sun was a cold rayless ball halved by the dark sea.  The wall of
heaven above it was flushed and translucent marble.  There was a silver
paring of moon in a tincture of rose.  When the sun had gone, the place
it had left was luminous with saffron and mauve, and for a brief while we
might have been alone in a vast hall with its crystalline dome penetrated
by a glow that was without.  The purple waters took the light from above
and the waves turned to flames.  The fountains that mounted at the bows
and fell inboard came as showers of gems.  In the same direction is the
Laguna de los Camarones Guys, not far behind. The third way we reach
the summit of a hill, and also marked the S 6 'and half a league
distant. For the fourth course of 32 minutes cut a gorge, which
discharges its waters to shrimp: At 22 minutes, we passed another,
which drains into a large brackish lagoon that we had to N, whose
eastern shore hills that rise some join the Highlands of Troncoso.

Walked 12 minutes more, cut a ravine, whose center runs a small stream,
whose source is the southwest, towards the NE and drains into the lagoon.
And finally, with the last due to arrive to the high Troncoso. Lomada one
so named, from where it spread to other bears, and making a slight turn,
extends into the address to the large shrimp. Another branch of hills
rises from the same Paraga, extending to the NO. The space between
the hills that was just talk, it Bagi and therefore plenty of water, and
hence is dry in time to bring these cattle parag's neighbors Chascomus.
Note here is the latitude of 36 ° 5 '30'', and longitude 00 ° 10'
55''E. In the afternoon demarcated two major gaps that were discovered,
one OS to another and NO higher than this one , both of good water. We
went to examine the most southern part of S which we saw quite a creek
that collects water, which runs a deep ravine that comes from the stream
S, and its excellent water pours into the lagoon, which is not so good
although you can drink. Finally, we found in the Highlands of Troncoso,
and the passage of shrimp, called _Hinojal_, are excellent places for
people and strong. From here we pass in Chascomus withdrawal, because
the baqueano and other practices of the country said they were not finding
the best parallel parag later said. RUMBOS. DISTANCES. ----------- -------
S 40 S 55 ½ E 8 ½ E 7 E 5 S 30 ½ N 85 ½ E 12 4 -------- 4 1 THURSDAY
14. We left with a dense fog, which is not allowed to see anything, but
we used the guide _Isla Postrera_ that had marked the day
before. So named a group of trees that are in the same step of the Salado,
and the only thing we saw throughout the trip. Pilots say that there is
in the space S of the Salado, between the meridian of the island and the
coast.

Soon after leaving, we cross a washed annoying: Later we found the gap
_Salada_ called because it is brackish, and his end of the OS will come a
little stream that flows only with the rains.
"When I went
down to take over this morning, Mac was singing Scotch songs.  What more
could we do below?"

"It's a grand life," nodded his superior's polished bald head.  "Aye,
there's guid reason for singing.  Sing to yon codfish, y'ken."

The skipper looked at the engineer in doubtful innocence.  "Well, I wish
singing would do it," he said gravely.  "I don't know.  How do you
account for some fellows getting most of the luck? Their ships are the
same, and they don't know any more."

Mac shook his head.  "The owners think they do.  Eben so little
worthy of consideration other Einwurf that the original one without
Beihülfe Uebersetzung understand, and if some (such as AW von
Schlegel) even believe it then come müste that every citizen and
farmer's Nibelungenlied in the proto-read how all his Greek Homer,
so are the dreams, which, if they ever come to pass should only be
Uebersetzungen the nation only taught what treasure it holds in the
poems, which could be achieved.

If the translation of the title of a medium-high German poem announces
that it may, however, including only one transmission in the
neuhochdeutsche language understood; alone we should therefore not
require that every word is APPROVED neuhochdeutsch should be: much more
is sufficient, on the whole the forms of grammar neuhochdeutschen
based on what the previous translations were not done, and the requirement
of general understanding not to be never. You can also neuhochdeutsche
the language nor the language of our newer poets differ in what
is recorded are some what more of the Middle High German destiny
seems.

Eben Diess but came to me at the substantially Uebersetzung Good by without
Diess Naivetät the childish, the simplicity of expression, honesty would
have been lost, and the color of the poem alterthümliche totally would
be blurred.

Everything what is admittedly neuhochdeutsche poet probably the last time
allows have banned the consideration of general understood to use, but
words like swords, Recke, Minne, and coincidence as "my sister",
instead of my sister will never disturb.

The Best Model of the Middle High German and approximate but with
hints alterthümlichen not overloaded language seemed to me Uhland darzubieten
romances, and you will find that I have endeavored to follow, but
Tieck treatment eyes gewaltthätig me to include his name and romances
by Siegfried freedoms which neither the present nor the earlier German
verstattete. Diess with respect for the genius of the poet. Versart
As for the concerns of the original, which the translator has tried
as closely as possible to replicate, so one must not forget that
in the Nibelungen not like us today, the verses after feet measured, even
as with our neighbors Sylben counted. Rather, we simply count the returns,
which in each Halbvers three, in the second half of the fourth stanza
of each verse, but usually four happen without them an equal number of
reductions needed to meet.

It happens so often that the surveys in consecutive Sylben to stand,
how Diess same in the second verse translation from préiswérthen heroes,
of bold Wágespiel the case, although the same phenomenon in the original
only in the change half of the verse shows. By contrast, equal the
fifth verse: It grew up in a noble BURGONDES Mägdelein the surveys at
the same location as the original side by side. How large,
therefore the difference of the actual verse of the Nibelungs is what we
usually favor ausgiebt, and how much of this sound and well-being of
that diversity is exceeded, the comparison of the second in the
"Introduction" mitgetheilten poems with the "consecration" Teaching . At
the end of the verses just masculine rhymes to permit, as the original
only "dull" and allow the "sounding" excludes thunlich was not because
the duty, as much as neuhochdeutschen with the language of the original
contents to save some of the conclusions rhymes maintain original
bid, but because of the short vocals in the first Sylbe, which makes
the first silent, according to Central High German Verskunst for blunt
(male) were rhymes while after ours for female, or if you should say, for
sounding kept be. As for the text requires only indication that I usually
am the Lachmannschen followed, which is also the verse numbers refer,
but also that I am old and less guaranteed stanzas of other editions,
but with an asterisk have. Man is difficult to accuse me can too freely
to transmit. Word faithfulness is not required: it is similar loyalty to
his master Eulenspiegels the hook. How many improvements but still
capable Uebersetzung would Nobody feels livelier than I, which,
although I use the manuscript shortly before the re-prints subjected
to strict examination, now to me this first arc notice would be
issued again a thousand without a question in the company irre to
be expected because when such works at the critical ruhn file?

It did
vouchsafe us one ship that morning, a German trawler with a fir tree
lashed to her deck, ready for Christmas morning, I suppose, when perhaps
they would tie herrings to its twigs.  But she was no good to us.  And
the grey animosity granted us three others during the afternoon, and they
were equally useless, for they had not sighted our fleet for a week.  All
that interested me was the way the lookout on the bridge picked out a
mark, which I could not see, for it was obscured where sea and sky were
the same murk, and called it a ship.  Long before I could properly
discern it, the look-out behaved as though he knew all about it.  But it
was never the sign we wanted.  We had changed our course so often that I
was beginning to believe that nobody aboard could make a nearer guess at
our position than the giddy victim in blindman's-buff.  A sextant was
never used.  Apparently these fishermen found their way about on a little
mental arithmetic compounded of speed, time, and the course.  That leaves
a large margin for error.  So if they felt doubtful they got a plummet,
greased it, and dipped it overboard.  When it was hauled up they
inspected whatever might be sticking to the tallow, and at once announced
our position.  At first I felt sceptical.  It was as though one who had
got lost with you in London might pick up a stone in an unknown
thoroughfare, and straightway announce the name of that street.  That
would be rather clever.  But I discovered my fishermen could do something
like it.

Our skipper no longer appeared at meals.  He was on the bridge day and
night.  He acted quite well a pose of complete indifference, and said no
more than: "This has not happened to me for years."  He repeated this
slowly at reasonable intervals.  But he had lost the nimble impulse to
chat about little things, and also his look of peering and innocent
curiosity.  As now he did not come to our table, the others spoke of
Billingsgate carriers, such as ours, which had driven about the Dogger
till there was no more in the bunkers than would take them to Hull to get
more coal.  From the way they spoke I gathered they would crawl into
port, in such circumstances, without flags, and without singing.  This
gave my first trip an appearance I had never expected.  Imagination,
which is clearly of little help in geography, had always pictured the
Dogger as a sea where you could hail another trawler as you would a cab
in London.  A vessel might reasonably expect to find there a fish-trunk
it had left behind.  But here we were with our ship plunging round the
compass merely expectant of luck, and each wave looking exactly like the
others,

But at last we had them.  We spoke a rival fleet of trawlers.  Their
admiral cried through a speaking-trumpet that he had left "ours" at six
that morning twenty miles NNE., steaming west.  It was then eleven
o'clock.  Hopefully the _Windhover_ put about.  We held on for three
hours at full speed, but saw nothing but the same waves.  The skipper
then rather violently addressed the Dogger, and said he was going below.
The mate asked what course he should steer.  "Take the damned ship where
you like," said the skipper.  "I'm going to sleep."  He was away ten
minutes.  He reappeared, and resumed his silent parade of the bridge.
The helmsman grinned at the mate.  By then the wind had fallen, the seas
were more deliberate; there came a suffusion of thin sunlight,
insufficient and too late to expand our outlook, for the night began to
fill the hollows of the Dogger almost at once, and soon there was nothing
to be seen but the glimmer of breaking waves.


6

There is nothing to be done with an adventure which has become a misprise
than to enjoy it that way instead.  What did I care when they complained
at breakfast of the waste of rockets the night before?  What did that
matter to me when the skylight above our morning coffee was open at last,
really open?  Fine weather for December!  Across that patch of blue,
which was a peep into eternity, I saw drift a bird as white as sanctity.
And did it matter if the imprints on our tablecloth of negroes' thumbs
were more numerous and patent than ever, in such a light?  Not in the
least.  For I myself had long since given up washing, as a laborious and
unsatisfactory process, and was then cutting up cake tobacco with the
rapture of an acolyte preparing the incense.  If this was what was meant
by getting lost on the Dogger, then the method, if only its magic could
be formulated, would make the fortunes of the professional fakirs of
happiness in the capitals of the rich.  Yet mornings of such a quality
cannot be purchased, nor even claimed as the reward of virtue.

On deck it was a regal day, leisurely, immense, and majestic.  The wind
was steady and generous.  The warm sunlight danced.  I should not have
been surprised to have seen Zeus throned on the splendid summit of the
greatest of those rounded clouds, contemplative of us, finger on cheek,
smiling with approval of the scene below--melancholy approval, for we
would remind him of those halcyon days whose refulgence turned pale and
sickly when Paul, that argumentative zealot, came to provide a world,
already thinking more of industry and State politics than of the gods,
with a hard-wearing theology which would last till Manchester came.  For
the _Windhover_ had drifted into a time and place as innocent of man's
highest achievements as is joy of death.  The wind and sea were chanting.
The riding of the ship kept time to that measure.  The vault was
turquoise, and the moving floor was cobalt.  The white islands of the
Olympians were in the sky.

Hour after hour our lonely black atom moved over that vast floor, with
nothing in sight, of course, in a day that had been left over from
earth's earlier and more innocent time, till a little cloud formed in the
north.  That cloud did not rise.  It blew towards us straight over the
seas, rigid and formless; becoming at last a barque under full sail,
heading east of south of us.  She was, when at a distance, a baffling
mass of canvas, from which a square-sail occasionally heliographed.  She
got abeam of us.  Before the clippers have quite gone, it is proper to
give grace for the privilege of having seen one, superlative as the ship
of romance, and in such a time and place.  She was a cloud that, when it
mounted the horizon like the others, instead of floating into the
meridian, moved over the seas to us, an immutable billow of luminous mist
blown forward on the wind.  She might have risen at any moment.  Her
green hull had the sheer of a sea hollow.  Her bows pressed continually
onward, like the crest of a wave curving forward to break, but held, as
though enchanted.  Sometimes, when her white mass heeled from us under
the pressure of the wind, a red light flashed from her submerged body.
And Delaberge headed for an arbor, under which there were some chairs and
a table of junk, it looked over their two small brightly colored
vases filled with water.

Then began the delicate job of arranging the classes.

Francisco had one to one flowers to Mrs Liénard, who was arranging in
vases artistically, combining and varying shades of the flowers according
to their website form and size. Gradually violated the irises, white
honeysuckle and miosotis iban gently emerging from a crown made
of roses and daffodils.

Below the arbor was a part of the terrace, surrounded by orange and a
piece of the facade with its windows open, all animated by the rustle
of countless insects, drunk of sun. Delaberge, muellemente enternecido
and feel expansive, even in spite of himself, dared to make a
modest suggestion: - This is Rosalind a paradise ...

But a paradise where people live constantly in the company itself, may
ultimately become boring ... Have not you ever thought of encouraging
a little lonely this? Mrs Liénard cleanest set his eyes on his
interlocutor. Dropped from their hands the rose whose thorns and
went away, leaning on elbows on the table, was a pensive moment. Entreabrieron
her lips are as close to a secret, but then again cerráronse. There was
a short silence and then placing their work in art with flowers in vases,
Camilla spoke thus: - Without doubt cree you, Delaberge, which is my
absolute privacy too ... My God, I sometimes think so! ... And I wonder
if it would better my life by changing a bit, but it is a slope toward
the guide which I do not like my dreams ... And yet ... He Mrs Liénard
and a funny moment of silence. The two vases were ready. The
widow stood up, sacudióse green leaves that had been stuck in her skirt
and taking one of the jugs Delaberge begged to take the other, smiling
to say: - continue to abuse ... But it's so nice that you do not fear
being indiscreet. - You are right, lady - Delaberge replied galante -
tráteme as a friend ... Only feel that my services are limited to very
small thing ... I wish I could pay my debt in a much better appreciation
towards you, so hospitable, so nice to volunteer as a poor banished
me. If ever you think your house a little lonely, at least it is a
delicious solitude, while the guest of _Sol of Oro_ is nothing more than
a tedious desert. They had now entered the room. - So - the lady
replied Liénard, taking the pitcher out of his hands - when you feel
too sad down there, come here a moment. - Can I allow you to re ... So
márchome entirely happy. He thought it desirable not to prolong her visit
and was ready to say goodbye. - Until very soon! - Told her amiable vivacity
trend with his hand .-- Until tomorrow, if you want. Yes, you come
tomorrow maybe ... maybe you have a council to ask. Delaberge and left the
house, animated by the hope of a forthcoming visit as well as by the
prospect of that mysterious secret that his widow wanted to make. II The
day after that in which he had helped Delaberge Mrs Liénard
settlement of their vases, Simon Princetot finished lunch, went
through the kitchen of _Sol of Oro_ and headed toward the stairs
leading to the red room.

Had already set foot on the first step when Mrs. Miguelina it followed
with anxious eyes, asked: - Where are you going? - The fourth of Mr.
Delaberge. Meets tomorrow at Town Hall the union formed by the user and
before agreeing with them how we will proceed, the inspector general
would like to see ... You understand ...

Would not you talk more and know what their intentions ... Miguelina
rocked from side to side head and shoulders lifted, saying: -
Working useless, the inspector has left just over lunch ...

Ah! Do not for a moment in his room! Yesterday, we spent the afternoon at
the home of Mrs Liénard and I think today is back there, because I saw
him taking the path of Rosalinda ... While she spoke Ibase darkening the
face of Simon, which is escaped from the eyes of Mrs.

Miguelina. For some time I had read in the bottom of my heart for your
child and easily guessed that what he disliked was the absence
of the inspector general, but the news of his repeated visits to
Rosalinda. Then it happened that the best to prevent Francis and Simon
came to friendships was closer to those two men separated by jealousy,
using Mrs Liénard as an insurance element of discord. Basically he feared
that it could exert influence in his son the owner of Rosalinda. I knew
that Simon had ordered the issue of boundaries only to please the lady
Liénard and watched with horror the development of a passion, that she
could not have for your child but cruel disappointments.

Díjose exciting jealousy that Simon could achieve two things at once: you
forget your love and deceptive away forever Delaberge. Approached the
boy, put his hand on the shoulder and whispered accents motherly compassion:
-- My poor son, you see a lot of work for nothing and still think
you've gotten into a bad deal! ... - I am not of your opinion, Mom, I
advocate the cause is just and can not now abandon the honest people I
have entrusted their interests. - I want to trick or deceive yourself
... I look fine and I see things clear ... If you have taken this issue
so hard, has not been for the beautiful eyes of the users of Val-Clavin,
but for those of Mrs Liénard. - Mom - Simon stopped blushing a
little, - silent, I beg you ... Why do you say that ... - I mean
what I think, what is true ... You are in love with Mrs Liénard
and you think that will reward your work consenting called Mrs Princetot
... - No! - Exclaimed the young .-- Never I thought something so absurd!
- Much better if I deceived my son, I assure you that you have
waited, you would regret it sooner or later ... More she vouchers,
no doubt, but these ladies are made to believe that we otherwise pasta.
They want to marry people of their own world while you fools with
cheerful smiles and sweet words, Mrs Liénard is left to the court by
the inspector general. - Oh, Mama!

- Simon said .-- What do you know of it!

- I know very well - said Mrs. Miguelina - if you jump to your eyes! ...
We are here a week and has already made three visits to the owner of
Rosalinda. It seems that they were already in Chaumont and the issue
of boundaries has been nothing but an excuse to explain your
stay in Val-Clavin ... That forest will entertain all with words and vague
promises in order to spend more time close to the widow and finish his
conquest ... In tomorrow's meeting seeks to put yourself between a rock
and a hard asking a categorical answer and you will see how I am right
... Simon bowed his head, bit his lips and eyebrows frunció hard.
Miguelina realized that and began to doubt guessed at the same time, the
painful contraction of her face, the boy who was suffering terribly. Then
he drew towards him, took her head between his hands and kissed him
with great tenderness on the forehead ... - Alas my son! - Added .--
Duéleme you do evil, but I do not want mocks anyone of you ... Think
about all of this and believe me, do not be fooled either by Liénard
coquetry of the lady, nor the blandishments of Mr. Simon ... Delaberge off
the arms of his mother and left quickly. It needed to find alone and think
a lot of apprehensions in the jealous that his mother's words had aroused
in his mind. When you leave your home in the forests of dirigióse
Carboneras: Certainly, with feminine intuition, Miguelina Princetot
had guessed what was happening in the heart his son, but he gave while
ambitious view that he had not ever had. He loved, indeed, Mrs Liénard,
but loved her candid and passionate with love, but never had the
illusion that they could see their tenderness reciprocated. Not unaware
that a barrier almost impassable separates him from the widow. And
although he loved without hope and without the illusion of being loved in
turn, does not mean it had to be less accessible to jealousy. He
remembered the feeling of deep regret that his soul had left in the
first visit to Delaberge Rosalinda ... Above the trees of the forest, then
the distinction pointed turrets of the house of Mrs Liénard and said that,
without doubt, at the same time the inspector general was talking with
the couple and took the opportunity to carry out its matrimonial
purposes ...

To this end, an access of rage made him raise the blood to the head while
a terrible anguish he oppressed his heart. Could not resist more ...
Although it had to be horrendous suffering, once and wanted to end their
deadly concerns and know all the distressing reality of their suspicions.
He left the stage and walking through the forest between herbage
headed towards the nearby park. While Mrs III Princetot spoke with his
son on his chest and threw the bad seed of jealousy, the inspector general,
moved like a boy who goes to your first appointment, followed the path of
good step Rosalinda. He had dressed with more care than usual and his
walk was stronger than other times ... Live in full freshness
and youth or have matured as a fruit of autumn, if that is the eternal
feminine we are prisoners of the same illusions, we are the same crazy
sweet fantasies. Walking quickly, Delaberge was greater in the freshness
of the vegetable fields A taste much sweeter in the air we breathe.
Argentines sounds of the bells of the village, flying above the forests,
he cheerfully Meciar, while savoring would fruition with the memories
of his previous visit. Oh, the bells of the villages, modest as the old
towers that support them, limpid sound and light as the atmosphere
of forests in vibrant, crystal clear streams and singer as above
which was for a moment, is the immense charm spread by the solitary
fields ... peaceful reveries rocking with the spirit of those who
listen!

... Whether young or old, whether sad or happy, to those whose ears are
reaching the sweet feel touched in the deepest and seemed to rise above
the earthly miseries Rise in the heart ... no one knows what a great
freshness Morning and Candida is the friendly support of our dreams,
our desires, our yearnings ... step up yet.

The charm of his music awakens in us, with their pure colors
of dawn, the most expensive ... memories of our youth rejoiced inwardly
by the bells are clear, Francis was more power in his imagination to
the lady sitting Liénard under the arbor, with its lively gestures
and their presence, with his amiable smile, with his dark eyes shining
with grace and a little wild. I remembered his words and the children
repeated complacently, as we like to smell the roses once in a
while we started to move. When I saw appear in the framework of the
curtains of the room, Camila Liénard hastily made that the embroidery
work, shone their eyes and a quick wave of blush colored her cheeks. -
Welcome, Mr Delaberge! - said .-- You were very kind as to fulfill its
promise on time ... Great is my happy ... And he held out his hand,
kissed the inspector general to knightly gallantry. - I had forgotten
what was promised - a moment replied Delaberge retaining fingers of the
young among them .-- What What is it, my lady? Ruborizóse it a bit, he
withdrew his hand and placed it gently on the arm while the gentleman
grumbled, showing one of the windows. - Come on you, we will talk
more freely in the garden ...

And through the sunny avenues led him to the center of the park. There was,
in the midst of a crossroads in a star pattern, a rustic pavilion, its
exterior adorned by many climbing plants. The interior was decorated with
simplicity and its furnishings were elegant rusticity. On the windows of
the pavilion where the light sifted plants to cover the medium,
distinguíanse to lose sight of the verdant avenues of the park. At the
center of the table and a flag was on the table were prepared some
refreshments. - Instalémonos here - Camila said approaching the table
.-- Here we are well and, as I think you should have a lot of heat, I
will prepare raspberry syrup. Aquella hospitable reception, the discreet
privacy of that flag which the fallen branches of beech covered with
greenery, the face slightly open and turned on the young widow sat
opposite him, so filled with a subtle Delaberge hacíale fading and
gradually lose the sense of reality.

With the assumption of a naive man who has no experience of the big
things of love, played by the desire of Mrs Liénard behavior, and
vague references to read novels in his youth made him believe in a
tender and delicate premeditation by the young widow.

The flag and isolation precautions taken to avoid any kind of
indiscreet eyes, gave this quote to a gallant appearance in a delicious
heart conturbaba old bachelor. By leaving the glass on the table,
turned to Mrs Delaberge its Liénard interrogative gaze tenderly. - You
may be wondering, no doubt - she began - what I may have to tell you
... Well, let's do this ... It is a bit delicate and may be surprised
by the ease with which I do my confidences to a person who I saw for
the first time just ten days ago ... First, you're not a stranger to me
... His friend Mr Voinchet I spoke with the warmest praise for their loyalty
and their clear trial. Besides, think that I live here alone, without
relatives, without the relationships that I can be honest with
peasants or servants of business.

It is not often meet a man like you, your character and its authority,
which will forgive the freedom I have to ask council to take ... Finally
- continued expression even affectionate - as I have told him that since
the first moments you gave me great confidence.

When I am nice person, I feel that no one _algo_ never fooled me and
drives me towards them ... This kind of confession murmured in the
stillness of that site, where the friction of moving greens against the
panes of the windows revealed only the existence of the external
world, and the excitement grew still hopes Francisco.

Strengthened the hand of Mrs. Liénard declaróse and deeply grateful for
the trust that is worthy show. - Thank you - added Delaberge - which
concerned me as friend, although our knowledge of recent date,
I can assure you, sir, that I will be entirely fair. I feel for you the
most tender estimate and burning desire to be helpful. - In this case, I
shall now put to the test your indulgence ... She stopped a moment, drank
some water to make a raspberry and poise then continued: - I thought a
lot in one sentence that he escaped to you yesterday about my lonely
life ... His comment came just in support of certain ideas that I come
from making any other time in at least one year ... Yes, but I put something
in my life, I weighed my isolation often ... I think I have twenty-six
years and that is certainly not a given age for full retirement. I have
excellent health, a more cheerful mood that melancholy, I am not a
widow with a vocation for life and I wonder sometimes if not quite saintly
casándome would work again ... - You are right - said Delaberge encouraging
-- loneliness is not good for anyone, but it is worse still for a woman
to an expansive, charming soul like yours ... Do not wait for the age
of the hesitations and the longing ... - No doubt - she replied, smiling,
- but, although I am still far from thirty, I think the age has come
hesitation .. . A first marriage awakens an moderately happy early
mistrust, is like a roll of carriage, which makes us cowards forever.
My late husband, Mr Liénard, was an honest man, but a nice little
fellow, weak and rather hard-hearted, prematurely old and sickly,
I had inadvertently locked in an atmosphere of melancholy and
boredom.

It took all my youth, had all the strength in me to keep, after five
years of such a scheme, my mood and my good health. I married him,
almost without knowing, and I do not want to fall back on the error
if I ever decide to get married. I wish that guided my choice now but
pure convenience sincerely felt an inclination ... Here's why, before
making my dreams a reality today, I wanted to hear the views of a serious
man ... You live in Paris, Mr Delaberge, you have experience of the
world and can thus advise me well. - Oh, lady! - Replied sighing - I am
a celibate life has always done very withdrawn, I can say that I have
spent my entire existence in the offices. However, I know something
about men and I can help you see clearly through their hesitation ...
There was no
River, except that small oval of glass on which rested our ship, like a
model.

The universe, which that morning had only begun to form in the void, was
grouped about us.  This was the original of mornings.  We were its
gravitational point.  It was inert and voiceless.  It was pregnant with
unawakened shapes, dim surprising shadows, the suggestions of forms.
Those near to us more nearly approached the shapes we knew in another
life.  Those beyond, diminishing and fainting in the obscurity of the
dawn, were beyond remembrance and recognition.  The _Windhover_ alone was
substantial and definite.  But placed about us, suspended in a night that
was growing translucent, were the shadows of what might once have been
ships, perhaps were ships to be, but were then steamers and sailers
without substance, waiting some creative word, shrouded spectres that had
left the wrecks of their old hulls below, their voyages finished, and
were waiting to begin a new existence, having been raised to our level in
a new world boundless and serene, with unplumbed deeps beneath them.
But you have come to me that you can save time, because this spells for
which I'm seeing is idle, without using anything, I would be more mischievous
spirit from hell. Don Cleophas, foaming value prerogative of Alcalá
student, told - Are you devil commoner, or the name - and great name -
said he wrenched the glass - and the most celebrated in entrambos
worlds. - Are you Lucifer - he repeated Don Cleophas . - This is
demon owners and squires - the voice replied.

There
were eight miles of ships: barges, colliers, liners, clippers, cargo
steamers, ghost after ghost took form ahead, and then went astern.  More
than once the fog thickened again, but the skipper never took way off her
while he could make out a ship ahead of us.  I Zoch me a valk, Mere, a
jar: dô I gezamete as I wolter han, and I in sin with gold gevidere want
bewant, he huop U.S. vil high and vloug in anderin LANT. Sach I Sit valk
schone Vliegen he vuorte to Sinem vuoze sidine beltless and what
the sin gevidere alrôt guldin.

Got send si zesamene the geliep Welnes like sin. "_Uebersetzung._" It gave
me the heart to hurt even sometimes done, the fact that I am not what
I desire to be And what I can never win: the shame is the large, non-my
'I still gold silver, by the people, I just red. I pulled myself a
hawk for more than a year, when he was tamed even after my desire, And I
his plumage with gold probably bewand He pointed to huge and
flew in a different country. Well, I saw the hawk fly wonderfully,
He carries on his foot silken belt, and exudes' his feathers all over
Rothem gold, God send them who are fond of, and hold.

"In the first stanza, the woman complains that she has a thing to
let desires, they could not have and maybe never win mag.

This can be done in the ratio of that knight go specifically she adds,
they think of people, not for gold or silver. The second law mentioned
again in the spring game by the hawks entflogenen the entschwundenen
lover says. The ratio seems to work here if there is not another, more
familiar and intimate than we thought from the first song to know. She
had the Falcons on your demand tamed, even with his gold plumage
admired, as the Raven King Oswald, who at his court has been
brought up, the wing shod with gold before he had him as a messenger
aussandte. Here closes the third act, it because of the still volatile,
escape into other land-hawk dragged under the old fetters: he was
"the bird no longer free, he had someone listened." Silk belt, he on
foot, his plumage was still admired by Rothem gold. The final
line speaks to the desire to reunite the lovers, and thus a greater
reliance on the lover than the first song and even the beginning of the
second had expected. For comparison might be the song mentioned by
Dietmar eist with the image of the hawks here are: There Vrouwe
stuont one alone and wait and wait on heide ir dear, so gesach si valk
Vliegen: "So you want valk, DAZ you are! you vliugest Swar LIEP you
is: you erkiusest in the forest one boum you gevalle.

"Well," he replied, "there was the _Cutty Sark_."

If he had said the _Golden Hind_ I should not have been more
astonished.  In a sense, it was the same thing.  The _Cutty Sark_ was
in the direct line with the Elizabethan ships, but at the end.  That
era, though it closed so recently, was already as far as a vague
memory.  The new sea engines had come, and here we were with them,
puzzled and embarrassed, having lost our reasonable friends.  Walked
10 minutes from the course fifteen, came to the SW tip of a gap that
was paid for the space of 11 minutes, and it will be apparent at all
times of abundant water for many springs to come. Its western shore
is ravines.His men said it was like living in a glass house.

I recalled to him that once, when my business was concerned with bills
of lading and freight accounts, I was advised to ship four hundred
cases to Sydney, New South Wales; and one-half of that consignment, my
instructions ran, was to arrive a month before the other.  The first
lot went in a modern steel barque, the _Cairnbulg_.  ("I have seen
her," said this submarine officer).  More than a fortnight later, being
too young to remember that the little _Cutty Sark_ had been one of the
China tea clippers, I shipped the last half of the consignment in her.
But she disordered all the careful plans of the consignees.  She got in
a fortnight ahead of the _Cairnbulg_.

The effect of that casual recollection on the submarine officer was
distinctly unwarlike.  This memory, and not his present work, might
have been the real thing.  He knew Woodget, the man in the Glengarry.
He wanted to know more; ever so much more.  He mentioned other ships
and masters, to induce me.  I got the idea that he would let his mind,
at least, escape into that time, if only I would help him to let it go.
But there was that potent and silent enigma about us. . . .

No such escape for him.  More was needed due to Delaberge administrative
mandate, the hotel had not been deceived itself, and never thought
that one day and had to leave, but sighed deeply, finally resigned. A
week after the general stores went to Paris not feeling in the back
of your mind as a vague release. promised written: neither fulfilled
their promise and a silence fell between them. Delaberge, who had not
the woman but the senses, was forgotten little by little, assuming
that Ms. Miguelina consolaría quickly and would be another in
his place. And very soon their affair peasants he appeared as one
of those shooting stars that are born in an August sky, and off
the cross ... The concerns of the profession and turned off early in
the ascent to the smallest memory of that adventure youth .
Years and years passed, carrying a stream as their desires and their
energies towards banks that were not precisely those of tenderness.
If you remember the episodes of its principles in Val-Clavin was nothing
to make fun of them negligible as the mature man with the follies
of youth. And behold, it became the administrative hazards to the people
lost in deep forests, that the details here, the ambient air, the
appearance of the road so often done in the past, evoked in his
mind the image of Mrs Miguelina, he believed buried under the
absolute oblivion ...

But death can only produce the true and total oblivion. As we walk along
the paths of life, we find again face to face with people and things
been forever erased from our memory. In Paris, if only occasionally
thought about the possibility of meeting again with her former lover,
but now, approaching people who had known, felt Delaberge born in a
spirit vague concern. felt alarmed the cautious officer, fearing, in the
case that Mrs Princetot still live in Val-Clavin, family members being
exposed to compromising their official capacity. In truth, they said
that can produce twenty-six years, even though it is a village,
large and radicalísimos changes. Among the people who knew him in
another time, many no doubt would have disappeared. Men mature
seniors now and then would have taken his place on other days of
the young girl, caring very little for the past.

The same lady would Princetot and fifty-four years, and it is natural
that the age would have done more discreetly. And even that might
happen and was not in town. Princetot already rich enough, he sold
his inn and maybe probably not remember the existence of the famous
_Sol ... Oro_ In addition, it would be easy to acquire on this news
item asking the coachman. This, often carrying passengers from one part
to another, know for sure the events of the country ... It had reached
the top of the hill and began to descend toward the verdant valley.
Climbing back to the carriage, coachman Delaberge asked: - Do
you know Val-Clavin - Certainly, sir, in this summer led to large
numbers of people traveling and even in times of hunting. - What
is the best hospice?

- The best ... There is only one that is really good: the _Sol of Oro_
... Other restaurants are just bad. - Are you good at home? - You
bet, and eats it divinely ... Langres people often go there to have a
field day ... The _Sol of Oro_ is not yesterday, for over thirty
years, very good quarters at _Príncipe_ and his wife. - What Prince
- said something Delaberge disoriented. Echos The coachman to laugh.
- I mean Mr Princetot, pardiez ... It is a nickname given to him, is
so rich and so powerful ... He called his wife and _Príncipe_ the
_Princesa_ ... I assure you that rich people are ... Half of the word
is yours. Princetot has added to his house a distillery, which earns
the money he wants, and not just say ... Nevertheless, in his guest as
if they need it, what do you want? Custom ... Delaberge VI was
profoundly silent. As the carriage rolled by between two rows of trees,
sometimes interrupted by cultivated land of a farm, was thinking, not
without concern, at his meeting with Mrs Princetot inevitable.
Tokens that now are dusty and in their
night, understood only by the few who also belong to the past.

There is the houseflag of the _Cutty Sark_, and her sister ships the
_Dharwar_, _Blackadder_, _Coldstream_--but one must be careful, and
refuse to allow these names to carry one-way.  There are so many of
them.  They are all good.  Also heard he Mär sing, sang the sword of
evidence from Alberich the Dwarf, of the nursery pflag, from high
Advertise love, peace victory of death, from Kriemhild's revenge
and horror of the Nibelungs, the North Da sword again at the helm
of the hand and researched on the nurseries after the wine green beach.
With hoes and shovels, he penetrated to the bottom, with nets and
poles: he was known hardships. From the wine quality empfieng it enough
power, the fact that he endured tags complaint Wohlgemuth. His song
prouder wealth came from the throat, that it nachgesungen of all mountains
again sounded. So embarked 'he would always go to the green Thal
Rhine, after researching the centers with high vocals and wine. On
large hole near Bingen until his voice swelled, Hei! as a strong
singing at the Scholl Lurlei resist! But he found in the depths of Golde
no trace, not in the stream bed, blinking in the cup 'only. biedre
Then the sword: "Now my lights until I went to the Hort to seek: the
great stronghold, which is the wine.

"is from the old days still retains the power that it attracts the big
Thater chivalry. From the mountains Schachten comes his fire spirit,
the stupid, the singer in high Thater instructs." He has made me an old
familiar song, as he waves the first verborgnen basic compatriots; How
Siegfried was slain by simple profit Golds And as their suffering smelt
Kriemhild, the noble queen.But that was long before the
eighties, and when steam was still ridiculed by those who could not see
it equalling clippers that had logged fourteen knots, or made a day's
run of over three hundred miles.  Yet some of Green's ships came down
to the end of the era, like the _Highflyer_ and the _Melbourne_.  
Delaberge was happy without a lot flatter, was fully aware of
fulfilling the agenda of the young, cheerful and lit up his face
clearly. - All right! - Said .-- So much for moral ... Let us now turn
to the physical qualities ...It is likely that
most who live in Poplar now, and see next to its railway station the
curious statue of a man and a dog, wonder who on earth Richard Green,
Esq., used to be; though there are a few oldsters left still who
remember Blackwall when its shipwrights, riggers, sailmakers, and
caulkers were men of renown and substance, and who can recall, not only
Richard Green, but that dog of his, for it knew the road to the dock
probably better than most of those who use it today.  From the bottom
of the ocean, from the fiery center of the earth, from the snowy peaks
of the Himalayas and from the quiet depths of ether light came Varuna,
Agni, as are the brains behind the celestial spheres and guide in
the stars course, and the Indra, riding on the Garuda bird, and not
with lightning in his right hand, but with aljófares and flowers,
so he and the other gods to shed hands full on the devout crowd. In
the conjuration was saved deep secret.

Ben Abdul Hixen anything suspicious. Most of the people in arms, but
was Muslim, the city went without care or compunction, and fun at the
party, the girls requebrando and romping with them.
Eastward the black
cliffs lowered till they sank under the white tower of Limehouse
Church; and the church, looking to the sunset, seemed baseless, shining
with a lunar radiance.  G. derived, mathematical Collegien task or issue
turns, and from whose presence is almost with certainty to exist at that
time, in addition to the rules and their derivations can close containing
textbooks, we can and must be made of all these circumstances, the
general concluded that three millennia before our era, both the arithmetic,
as well as the geometric knowledge of the Egyptians, a significant
age for this level of development possessed.
The symmetry of her
laden hull set in a plane of dancing sun-points, and her soaring amber
masts, cross-sparred, caught in a mesh of delicate cordage, and shining
till they almost vanished where they rose above the buildings and stood
against the sky, made her seem as noble and haughty as a burst of great
music.  One of ours, that ship.  Part of our parish.