Through the long tedious hours in the shadowy class-room Gordon dreamed
of wonderful successes, and let others pass him by in the rush for
promotion. He began to think that prizes and form lists were not worth
worrying about; he said a classical education had such a narrowing
effect on character. We can always produce arguments to back up an
inclination if we want to. And in Finnemore there was no force to stir
anyone to do what they did not want.

Only once a day was Gordon at all industrious, and that was when the
Chief took the Lower and Upper Sixth Form combined in Horace and
Thucydides.

For the Chief Gordon always worked; not, it is true, with any real
measure of success, for he had rather got out of the habit of grinding
at the classics, but at any rate with energy. And during these hours he
began to perceive vaguely what a clear-sighted, unprejudiced mind the
Chief had. To the boy in the Fourth and Fifth forms any headmaster must
appear not so much a living person as the emblem of authority, the final
dispenser of justice, the hard, analytical sifter of evidence, "coldly
sublime, intolerably just." Gordon had always before looked on the Chief
as a figurehead, who at times would unbend most surprisingly and become
a man; on the cricket field, for example, when in a master's match he
had fielded cleanly a terrific cut at point, and played a sporting
innings; at House suppers, and, most surprisingly of all, when a row was
on, Gordon had been unable to understand him. He could not dissociate
him from his conception of a headmaster--a sort of Mercury, a divine
emissary of the gods, sent as a necessary infliction. Yet at times the
Chief was intensely human, and when Gordon came under his immediate
influence and caught a glimpse of his methods, he saw in a flash that at
all times his headmaster was a generous, sympathetic nature, and that it
was his own distorted view that had ever made him think otherwise. The
Chief was so ready to appreciate a joke, so quick with an answer, so
unassuming, so utterly the antithesis of any master he had met before.

There were one or two incidents that stood out clearer than any others
in Gordon's memories of his Chief.

At the very beginning of the term, before a start had been made on the
term's work, the Chief was talking about Horace's life and
characteristics.

"Now, Tester," he said, "if you were asked to sum up Horace's outlook on
life in a single phrase, what would you say?"

Tester thought for a minute or so.

"Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die," he hazarded.

The form laughed. It seemed rather a daring generalisation. But the
Chief's answer came back pat:

"Well, hardly that, Tester. Shall we say, Let us eat and drink, but not
too much, or we shall have a stomach-ache to-morrow?"

He had taken Tester's quite erroneous estimate as a basis, and had
exactly hit off Horace's character.

But the following incident more than any other brought home to Gordon
how extraordinarily broadminded the Chief was. Carter was construing,
and had made a most preposterous howler, it does not matter what. He
had learnt the translation in the notes by heart, and quite failed to
connect it verbatim with the Greek.

"There now, you see how utterly absurd you are," said the Chief. "You
have not taken the trouble to look the words up in a dictionary. Just
because you see what you think is a literal translation in the notes.
There lies the fatal error of using cribs. Of course when I catch a boy
in Shell or IV. A using one, I drop on him not only for slackness but
dishonesty. The boy is taking an unfair advantage of the rest and
getting promotion undeservedly. But in the Sixth Form you have got
beyond that stage. We don't worry much about marks here, so there is
nothing immoral in using a crib. It is merely silly. It tends to slack
translation which in the end ruins scholarship. And by using the notes
as you do, Carter, you are doing the same thing. You really must use
more common-sense. Go on, please, Harding."

Gordon was amazed at such a broadminded view of cribbing. He had long
since grown weary of preachers who talked about dishonesty, without
seeming to draw a line between active dishonesty and passive slackness.
The Chief realised that it was deliberate slackness that led to
dishonesty, not dishonesty that was incidentally slack. The Chief must
be a very wise man.

Nevertheless his admiration of the Chief did not make him do any more
work than was strictly necessary; and Gordon began to drift into a
peaceful academic groove, where he did just enough work to pass
unnoticed--neither good nor bad. He had grown tired of ragging. It was
such an effort, especially when the call of football demanded of every
ounce of energy. To drift down-stream may spell mediocrity, but it also
spells security, and, after all, there was little danger of Gordon
becoming a mediocrity in other branches of school life. He was far too
ambitious for that, but his ambitions were not academic. House politics
and athletics were sufficient burdens for one man in one lifetime.
"Other heights in other lives"; and Gordon believed in doing a few
things well.

It was more than lucky for Gordon's future that this term he found
himself a success on the football field. If he had not, he would
probably have sought a prominent position in the eyes of the school by
more doubtful paths; but as it was there was no need for him to plunge
into wild escapades to get noticed. His football attracted quite enough
attention. People spoke of his chances of getting into the Fifteen next
year. The Milton match was his greatest triumph, mainly because the rest
of the side did badly. Lovelace played back and made one or two fine
runs when he got the ball, but as a whole the side played very
half-heartedly. Burgoyne was off colour, and Collins's excuse that he
had been overworking lately did not save him from being kicked out of
the side after the match. But Gordon, who had got his Colts' badge on
the morning of the match, and so was relieved of any anxieties about his
place, played what he always said was his best game; so much so, in
fact, that Buller after the match, said:

"Rotten, absolutely rotten, with the exception of Caruthers, who played
magnificently."

There was only one blot on his performance, and that, though everyone
laughed about it, caused Gordon some regretful moments afterwards.
Rightly or wrongly Gordon thought the opposite scrum half was not
putting the ball in straight. Gordon told him what he thought of him.
The scrum half called him "a bloody interfering bastard," and told him
to go to hell. The next time the scrum half got the ball Gordon flung
him with unnecessary force, when he was already in touch, right into the
ropes. And from then onwards the relations between Gordon and the scrum
half were those of a scrapping match. Gordon came off best. He got a
bruise on the left thigh, but no one could notice that, while his
opponent had a bleeding nose and a cut lip. The school was amused, but
Gordon overheard a Milton man say: "I don't think much of the way these
Fernhurst men play the game. Look at that tick of a forward there. Dirty
swine!"

After the game Gordon apologised to the half, and exchanged the usual
compliments; but he could see that the rest of the Milton side were not
at all pleased.

He spoke to Mansell about it.

"My dear man, don't you worry. You played a jolly fine game this
afternoon, and if you go on like that you are a cert. for your Firsts
next year. You played a damned hard game."

"Yes; but it is rather a bad thing for the school, isn't it, if we get a
reputation for playing rough?"

"But you weren't playing foul, and Buller always tells us to go hard and
play as rough as we like."

"Yes; but still----"

He was not quite reassured, though everyone told him it was all right.
However, if "the Bull" made no comment, it looked as if nothing could be
wrong. As a matter of fact, "the Bull" had not noticed; and though
Christy, in a fit of righteous indignation, poured out a long story to
him, he only smiled.

"Oh, well, I expect he got a bit excited. First time he had played
footer for a school side.... I was a bit fierce my first game for
England. Don't blame him. He's a keen kid, and I am sure the other side
did not mind."

Christy mumbled indistinctly. No one ever seemed to take much notice of
what he said. That evening, however, he and Rogers, over a glass of
port, agreed that Caruthers was a thoroughly objectionable young fellow
who ought to be taken in hand, and with this Christian sentiment to
inspire him Rogers went home to put a few finishing touches to his
sermon for the next day.


CHAPTER II: CARNIVAL


The tradition of Pack Monday Fair at Fernhurst is almost as old as the
School House studies. The legend, whether authenticated or not only
Macdonald, the historian of Fernhurst, could say, was handed down from
generation to generation. It was believed that, when the building of the
Abbey was finished, all the masons, glass-workers and artificers packed
up their tools and paraded the town with music and song, celebrating the
glory of their accomplished work. And from time immemorial the
townspeople have celebrated the second Monday in October by assembling
outside the Abbey at midnight, and ushering in a day of marketing and
revelry by a procession through the town, beating tin cans and blowing
upon posthorns. With the exception of this ritual, the day had become
merely an ordinary fair. But there was no sleeping on that Sunday night,
and for the whole week tantalising sounds of shrieking merry-go-rounds,
of whistling tramcars and thundering switchbacks were borne across the
night to disturb those who were trying to work in hall. It used to be
the custom for the bloods to creep out at night and take part in the
revels; but when the new Chief had come, four years before, he put a
firm hand upon such abuses, and had even threatened to expel anyone he
found in the act, a threat which he had carried out promptly by
expelling the best half-back in the school a fortnight before the
Dulbridge match; so that now only a few daring spirits stole out in the
small hours of the night on the hazardous expedition. Those courageous
souls were the objects of the deepest veneration among the smaller boys,
who would whisper quietly of their doings in the upper dormitories when
darkness lent a general security to the secrets that were being
revealed.

This term about three days before Pack Monday, Gordon, Mansell, Carter
and a few others were engaged in their favourite hobby of shipping
Rudd's study. One chair had already gone the way of all old wood, and
the table was in danger of following it, when Rudd suddenly burst out:

"Oh, you think yourselves damned fine fellows, six of you against one!"

A roar of laughter went up. It was the traditional complaint of all
weaklings in school stories, and was singularly of the preparatory
school type of defence.

"Jolly brave, aren't you? I'd like to see any one of you do anything
that might get you into trouble. I don't mind betting there's not one of
you that would dare to come out with me to the fair next Monday."

There was an awkward pause. The challenge was unconventional; and the
Public School boy is not brought up to expect surprises. The only thing
to do was to pass it off with a joke.

Lovelace stepped into the breach.

"Do you think any of us would go anywhere with a swine like you who does
not wash? Dirty hog!"

"Of course you would not; you are afraid."

At that point Gordon's hatred of taking the second place, which had
before led him into difficulties, once again asserted itself. "Damn it
all," he thought, "I am not going to be beaten by Rudd!"

"Do you say we are all funks if we don't go?"

"Yes!"

"All right then, damn you, I will go with you, just to show you that you
are not the only person in this rotten school who's fool enough to risk
being bunked."

Rudd was taken aback. He had made the challenge out of bravado. He had
regretted it instantly. In the same spirit Gordon had accepted the
challenge; he also wished he had not the moment afterwards. But both saw
that they would have to go through with it now.

"Good man," said Rudd, not to be outdone. "I wanted someone to go with
me; rather lonely these little excursions without company."

He spoke with the air of one who spent every other night giving
dinner-parties at the Eversham Tap.

"Look here, now," broke in Mansell, "don't make bloody fools of
yourselves. You will only get the sack if you are caught, and you
probably will get caught; you are sure to do something silly. For God's
sake, don't go. It's not worth it. Really, not!"

"Oh, shut up; don't panic," was Gordon's scornful answer; "we are going
to have a fine time, aren't we, Rudd?"

"Splendid," said Rudd, who wanted to laugh; the whole situation was
fraught with such a perfectly impossible irony.

"Oh, do have some sense, man." Lovelace was impatient with him. "What is
the use of rushing about at midnight in slouch hats with a lot of silly,
shrieking girls?"

"You can't understand, you live in the country. I am a Londoner. You
want the true Cockney spirit that goes rolling drunk on Hampstead Heath
on Easter Monday."

"Well, thank God, I do want it, then," said Lovelace.

Rumour flies round a house quickly. In hall several people came up and
asked Gordon if it was true. They looked at him curiously with an
expression in which surprise and admiration were curiously blended. The
old love of notoriety swept over Gordon once more; he felt frightfully
bucked with himself. What a devil of a fellow he was, to be sure. He
went round the studies in hall, proclaiming his audacity.

"I say, look here, old chap, you needn't tell anyone, but I am going out
to Pack Monday Fair; it will be some rag!"

The sensation he caused was highly gratifying. By prayers all his
friends and most of his acquaintances knew of it. Of course they would
keep it secret. But Gordon knew well that by break next day it would be
round the outhouses, and he looked forward to the number of questions he
would get asked. To be the hero of an impending escapade was pleasant.

"I say, Davenport," he said in his dormitory that evening, "I am going
out to the fair on Monday."

Davenport said nothing, and showed no sign of surprise. Gordon was
disappointed.

"Well, what do you think of it?" he said at last.

"That you are a sillier ass than I thought you were," said Davenport.

And as Gordon lay thinking over everything in the dark, he came to the
conclusion that Davenport was not so very far wrong after all.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cold and nervous, Gordon waited for Rudd in the dark boot-hole under the
Chief's study on Pack Monday night just before twelve. In stockinged
feet he had crept downstairs, opened the creaking door without making
any appreciable noise, and then waited in the boot-room, which was
filled with the odour of blacking and damp decay. There was a small
window at the end of it, through which it was just possible to squeeze
out on to the Chief's front lawn. After that all was easy; anyone could
clamber over the wall by the V. A green.

There was the sound of feet on the stairs. It seemed to Gordon as if
they were bound to wake the whole house. Rudd's figure was framed black
in the doorway.

