Various causes were assigned for the phenomenal ill-luck of the
theater, but undoubtedly the vital objection to it as a Temple of Drama
lay in the fact that nobody could ever find the place where it was
hidden. Cabmen shook their heads on the rare occasions when they were
asked to take a fare there. Explorers to whom a stroll through the
Australian bush was child's-play, had been known to spend an hour on
its trail and finish up at the point where they had started.

It was precisely this quality of elusiveness which had first attracted
Mr. Montague. He was a far-seeing man, and to him the topographical
advantages of the theater were enormous. It was further from a
fire-station than any other building of the same insurance value
in London, even without having regard to the mystery which enveloped
its whereabouts. Often after a good dinner he would lean comfortably
back in his chair and see in the smoke of his cigar a vision of the
Windsor Theater blazing merrily, while distracted firemen galloped madly
all over London, vainly endeavoring to get some one to direct them to
the scene of the conflagration. So Mr. Montague bought the theater for
a mere song, and prepared to get busy.

Unluckily for him, the representatives of the various fire offices with
which he had effected his policies got busy first. The generous fellows
insisted upon taking off his shoulders the burden of maintaining the
fireman whose permanent presence in a theater is required by law.
Nothing would satisfy them but to install firemen of their own and pay
their salaries. This, to a man in whom the instincts of the phoenix
were so strongly developed as they were in Mr. Montague, was distinctly
disconcerting. He saw himself making no profit on the deal--a thing
which had never happened to him before.

And then Roland Bleke occurred, and Mr. Montague's belief that his race
was really chosen was restored. He sold the Windsor Theater to Roland
for twenty-five thousand pounds. It was fifteen thousand pounds more
than he himself had given for it, and this very satisfactory profit
mitigated the slight regret which he felt when it came to transferring
to Roland the insurance policies. To have effected policies amounting
to rather more than seventy thousand pounds on a building so
notoriously valueless as the Windsor Theater had been an achievement of
which Mr. Montague was justly proud, and it seemed sad to him that so
much earnest endeavor should be thrown away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Over the little lunch with which she kindly allowed Roland to entertain
her, to celebrate the purchase of the theater, Miss Verepoint outlined
her policy.

"What we must put up at that theater," she announced, "is a revue. A
revue," repeated Miss Verepoint, making, as she spoke, little
calculations on the back of the menu, "we could run for about fifteen
hundred a week--or, say, two thousand."

Saying two thousand, thought Roland to himself, is not quite the same
as paying two thousand, so why should she stint herself?

"I know two boys who could write us a topping revue," said Miss
Verepoint. "They'd spread themselves, too, if it was for me. They're in
love with me--both of them. We'd better get in touch with them at
once."

To Roland, there seemed to be something just the least bit sinister
about the sound of that word "touch," but he said nothing.

"Why, there they are--lunching over there!" cried Miss Verepoint,
pointing to a neighboring table. "Now, isn't that lucky?"

To Roland the luck was not quite so apparent, but he made no demur to
Miss Verepoint's suggestion that they should be brought over to their
table.

The two boys, as to whose capabilities to write a topping revue Miss
Verepoint had formed so optimistic an estimate, proved to be well-grown
lads of about forty-five and forty, respectively. Of the two, Roland
thought that perhaps R. P. de Parys was a shade the more obnoxious, but
a closer inspection left him with the feeling that these fine
distinctions were a little unfair with men of such equal talents.
Bromham Rhodes ran his friend so close that it was practically a dead
heat. They were both fat and somewhat bulgy-eyed. This was due to the
fact that what revue-writing exacts from its exponents is the constant
assimilation of food and drink. Bromham Rhodes had the largest appetite
in London; but, on the other hand, R. P. de Parys was a better drinker.

"Well, dear old thing!" said Bromham Rhodes.

"Well, old child!" said R. P. de Parys.

Both these remarks were addressed to Miss Verepoint. The talented pair
appeared to be unaware of Roland's existence.

Miss Verepoint struck the business note. "Now you stop, boys," she
said. "Tie weights to yourselves and sink down into those chairs. I
want you two lads to write a revue for me."

"Delighted!" said Bromham Rhodes; "but----"

"There is the trifling point to be raised first----" said R. P. de Parys.

"Where is the money coming from?" said Bromham Rhodes.

"My friend, Mr. Bleke, is putting up the money," said Miss Verepoint,
with dignity. "He has taken the Windsor Theater."

The interest of the two authors in their host, till then languid,
increased with a jerk. "Has he? By Jove!" they cried. "We must get
together and talk this over."

It was Roland's first experience of a theatrical talking-over, and he
never forgot it. Two such talkers-over as Bromham Rhodes and R. P. de
Parys were scarcely to be found in the length and breadth of theatrical
London. Nothing, it seemed, could the gifted pair even begin to think
of doing without first discussing the proposition in all its aspects.
The amount of food which Roland found himself compelled to absorb during
the course of these debates was appalling. Discussions which began at
lunch would be continued until it was time to order dinner; and then,
as likely as not, they would have to sit there till supper-time in order
to thrash the question thoroughly out.

       *       *       *       *       *

The collection of a cast was a matter even more complicated than the
actual composition of the revue. There was the almost insuperable
difficulty that Miss Verepoint firmly vetoed every name suggested. It
seemed practically impossible to find any man or woman in all England
or America whose peculiar gifts or lack of them would not interfere
with Miss Verepoint's giving a satisfactory performance of the
principal role. It was all very perplexing to Roland; but as Miss
Verepoint was an expert in theatrical matters, he scarcely felt
entitled to question her views.

It was about this time that Roland proposed to Miss Verepoint. The
passage of time and the strain of talking over the revue had to a
certain extent moderated his original fervor. He had shaded off from a
passionate devotion, through various diminishing tints of regard for
her, into a sort of pale sunset glow of affection. His principal reason
for proposing was that it seemed to him to be in the natural order of
events. Her air towards him had become distinctly proprietorial. She
now called him "Roly-poly" in public--a proceeding which left him with
mixed feelings. Also, she had taken to ordering him about, which, as
everybody knows, is an unmistakable sign of affection among ladies of
the theatrical profession. Finally, in his chivalrous way, Roland had
begun to feel a little apprehensive lest he might be compromising Miss
Verepoint. Everybody knew that he was putting up the money for the
revue in which she was to appear; they were constantly seen together at
restaurants; people looked arch when they spoke to him about her. He
had to ask himself: was he behaving like a perfect gentleman? The
answer was in the negative. He took a cab to her flat and proposed
before he could repent of his decision.

She accepted him. He was not certain for a moment whether he was glad
or sorry. "But I don't want to get married," she went on, "until I have
justified my choice of a profession. You will have to wait until I have
made a success in this revue."

Roland was shocked to find himself hugely relieved at this concession.

The revue took shape. There did apparently exist a handful of artistes
to whom Miss Verepoint had no objection, and these--a scrubby but
confident lot--were promptly engaged. Sallow Americans sprang from
nowhere with songs, dances, and ideas for effects. Tousled-haired
scenic artists wandered in with model scenes under their arms. A great
cloud of chorus-ladies settled upon the theater like flies. Even
Bromham Rhodes and R. P. de Parys--those human pythons--showed signs of
activity. They cornered Roland one day near Swan and Edgar's, steered
him into the Piccadilly Grill-room and, over a hearty lunch, read him
extracts from a brown-paper-covered manuscript which, they informed
him, was the first act.

It looked a battered sort of manuscript and, indeed, it had every right
to be. Under various titles and at various times, Bromham Rhodes' and
R. P. de Parys' first act had been refused by practically every
responsible manager in London. As "Oh! What a Life!" it had failed to
satisfy the directors of the Empire. Re-christened "Wow-Wow!" it had
been rejected by the Alhambra. The Hippodrome had refused to consider
it, even under the name of "Hullo, Cellar-Flap!" It was now called,
"Pass Along, Please!" and, according to its authors, was a real revue.

Roland was to learn, as the days went on, that in the world in which he
was moving everything was real revue that was not a stunt or a corking
effect. He floundered in a sea of real revue, stunts, and corking
effects. As far as he could gather, the main difference between these
things was that real revue was something which had been stolen from
some previous English production, whereas a stunt or a corking effect
was something which had been looted from New York. A judicious blend of
these, he was given to understand, constituted the sort of thing the
public wanted.

Rehearsals began before, in Roland's opinion, his little army was
properly supplied with ammunition. True, they had the first act, but
even the authors agreed that it wanted bringing up-to-date in parts.
They explained that it was, in a manner of speaking, their life-work,
that they had actually started it about ten years ago when they were
careless lads. Inevitably, it was spotted here and there with smart
topical hits of the early years of the century; but that, they said,
would be all right. They could freshen it up in a couple of evenings;
it was simply a matter of deleting allusions to pro-Boers and
substituting lines about Marconi shares and mangel-wurzels. "It'll be
all right," they assured Roland; "this is real revue."

In times of trouble there is always a point at which one may say, "Here
is the beginning of the end." This point came with Roland at the
commencement of the rehearsals. Till then he had not fully realized the
terrible nature of the production for which he had made himself
responsible. Moreover, it was rehearsals which gave him his first clear
insight into the character of Miss Verepoint.

Miss Verepoint was not at her best at rehearsals. For the first time,
as he watched her, Roland found himself feeling that there was a case
to be made out for the managers who had so consistently kept her in the
background. Accessibility--Cleaning. That water-tube boilers are more
accessible as a class than are fire-tube boilers has been indicated. All
water-tube boilers, however, are not equally accessible. In certain
designs, due to the arrangement of baffling used it is practically
impossible to remove all deposits of soot and dirt. Frequently, in
order to cheapen the product, sufficient cleaning and access doors
are not supplied as part of the boiler equipment.

       The tendency of soot to collect on the crown sheets of certain
vertical water-tube boilers has been noted.

Such deposits are difficult to remove and if corrosion goes on
beneath such a covering the sheet may crack and an explosion
result.

[Illustration: Rear View--Longitudinal Drum Vertical Header Boiler, Showing
Access Doors to Rear Headers]
It is almost impossible to thoroughly clean water legs internally,
and in such places also is there a tendency to unsuspected corrosion
under deposits that cannot be removed.

In Babcock & Wilcox boilers every portion of the interior of the heating
surfaces can be reached and kept clean, while any soot
deposited on the exterior surfaces can be blown off while the boiler is
under pressure.

Inspection--The accessibility which makes possible the thorough
cleaning of all portions of the Babcock & Wilcox boiler also
provides a means for a thorough inspection.

Drums are accessible for internal inspection by the removal of
the manhole plates. Front headers may be inspected through large
doors furnished for the purpose. Rear headers in the inclined
header designs may be inspected from the chamber formed by such headers
and the rear wall of the boiler. In the vertical header designs rear
tube doors are furnished, as has been stated.

In certain designs of water-tube boilers in order to assure accessibility
for inspection of the rear ends of the tubes, the rear portion of
the boiler is exposed to the atmosphere with resulting excessive radiation
losses.

In other designs the means of access to the rear ends of the tubes are
of a makeshift and unworkmanlike character.

By the removal of handhole plates, all tubes in a Babcock & Wilcox boiler
may be inspected for their full length either for the presence of
scale or for suspected corrosion.

Repairs--In Babcock & Wilcox boilers the possession of great strength,
the elimination of stresses due to uneven temperatures and of
the resulting danger of leaks and corrosion, the protection of the
drums from the intense heat of the fire, and the decreased liability
of the scale forming matter to lodge on the hottest tube surfaces,
all tend to minimize the necessity for repairs.

The tubes of the Babcock & Wilcox boiler are practically the only
part which may need renewal and these only at infrequent intervals
When necessary, such renewals may be made cheaply and quickly.

A small stock of tubes, 4 inches in diameter, of sufficient length for
the boiler used, is all that need be carried to make renewals.

Repairs in water-leg boilers are difficult at best and frequently
unsatisfactory when completed.

When staybolt replacements are necessary, in order to get at the inner
sheet of the water leg, several tubes must in some cases be cut out.
Not infrequently a replacement of an entire water leg is necessary
and this is difficult and requires a lengthy shutdown. With the
Babcock & Wilcox boiler, on the other hand, even if it is necessary
to replace a section, this may be done in a few hours after the
boiler is cool.

In the case of certain staybolt failures the working pressure of a repaired
boiler utilizing such construction will frequently be lowered by the
insurance companies when the boiler is again placed in service.

The sectional nature of the Babcock & Wilcox boiler enables it to
maintain its original working pressure over long periods of time,
almost regardless of the nature of any repair that may be required.

[Illustration: 1456 Horse-power Installation of Babcock & Wilcox Boilers
at the Raritan Woolen Mills, Raritan, N.

J. The First of These Boilers were Installed in 1878 and 1881 and are
still Operated at 80 Pounds Pressure]
Durability--Babcock & Wilcox boilers are being operated in every-day
service with entirely satisfactory results and under the same steam
pressure as that for which they were originally sold that have been
operated from thirty to thirty-five years.

It is interesting to note in considering the life of a boiler that
the length of life of a Babcock & Wilcox boiler must be taken as
the criterion of what length of life is possible.

This is due to the fact that there are Babcock & Wilcox boilers
in operation to-day that have been in service from a time that antedates
by a considerable margin that at which the manufacturer of any
other water-tube boiler now on the market was started.

I suppose they couldn't find the Windsor. Anyhow, it's burned to the
ground and what we want to know is what are you going to do about it?"

Roland was much too busy blessing the good angels of Kingsway to reply
at once. R. P. de Parys, sympathetic soul, placed a wrong construction
on his silence.

"Poor old Roly!" he said. "It's quite broken him up. The best thing we
can do is all to go off and talk it over at the Savoy, over a bit of
lunch."

"Well," said Miss Verepoint, "what are you going to do--rebuild the
Windsor or try and get another theater?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The authors were all for rebuilding the Windsor. True, it would take
time, but it would be more satisfactory in every way. Besides, at this
time of the year it would be no easy matter to secure another theater
at a moment's notice.

To R. P. de Parys and Bromham Rhodes the destruction of the Windsor
Theater had appeared less in the light of a disaster than as a direct
intervention on the part of Providence. The completion of that tiresome
second act, which had brooded over their lives like an ugly cloud,
could now be postponed indefinitely.

"Of course," said R. P. de Parys, thoughtfully, "our contract with you
makes it obligatory on you to produce our revue by a certain date--but
I dare say, Bromham, we could meet Roly there, couldn't we?"

"Sure!" said Rhodes. "Something nominal, say a further five hundred on
account of fees would satisfy us. I certainly think it would be better
to rebuild the Windsor, don't you, R. P.?"

"I do," agreed R. P. de Parys, cordially. "You see, Roly, our revue has
been written to fit the Windsor. It would be very difficult to alter it
for production at another theater. Yes, I feel sure that rebuilding the
Windsor would be your best course."

There was a pause.

"What do you think, Roly-poly?" asked Miss Verepoint, as Roland made no
sign.

"Nothing would delight me more than to rebuild the Windsor, or to take
another theater, or do anything else to oblige," he said, cheerfully.
"Unfortunately, I have no more money to burn."

It was as if a bomb had suddenly exploded in the room. A dreadful
silence fell upon his hearers. For the moment no one spoke. R. P. de
Parys woke with a start out of a beautiful dream of prawn curry and
Bromham Rhodes forgot that he had not tasted food for nearly two hours.
Miss Verepoint was the first to break the silence.

"Do you mean to say," she gasped, "that you didn't insure the place?"

Roland shook his head. The particular form in which Miss Verepoint had
put the question entitled him, he felt, to make this answer.

"Why didn't you?" Miss Verepoint's tone was almost menacing.

"Because it did not appear to me to be necessary."

Nor was it necessary, said Roland to his conscience. Mr. Montague had
done all the insuring that was necessary--and a bit over.

Miss Verepoint fought with her growing indignation, and lost. "What
about the salaries of the people who have been rehearsing all this
time?" she demanded.

"I'm sorry that they should be out of an engagement, but it is scarcely
my fault. However, I propose to give each of them a month's salary. I
can manage that, I think."

Miss Verepoint rose. "And what about me? What about me, that's what I
want to know. Where do I get off? If you think I'm going to marry you
without your getting a theater and putting up this revue you're jolly
well mistaken."

Roland made a gesture which was intended to convey regret and
resignation. He even contrived to sigh.

"Very well, then," said Miss Verepoint, rightly interpreting this
behavior as his final pronouncement on the situation. "Then
everything's jolly well off."

She swept out of the room, the two authors following in her wake like
porpoises behind a liner. Roland went to his bureau, unlocked it and
took out a bundle of documents. He let his fingers stray lovingly among
the fire insurance policies which energetic Mr. Montague had been at
such pains to secure from so many companies.

"And so," he said softly to himself, "am I."


THE EPISODE OF THE LIVE WEEKLY

Fourth of a Series of Six Stories
[First published in _Pictorial Review_, August 1916]


It was with a start that Roland Bleke realized that the girl at the
other end of the bench was crying. For the last few minutes, as far
as his preoccupation allowed him to notice them at all, he had been
attributing the subdued sniffs to a summer cold, having just recovered
from one himself.

He was embarrassed. He blamed the fate that had led him to this
particular bench, but he wished to give himself up to quiet
deliberation on the question of what on earth he was to do with
two hundred and fifty thousand pounds, to which figure his fortune
had now risen.

The sniffs continued. Roland's discomfort increased. Chivalry had
always been his weakness. In the old days, on a hundred and forty
pounds a year, he had had few opportunities of indulging himself
in this direction; but now it seemed to him sometimes that the
whole world was crying out for assistance.

Should he speak to her? He wanted to; but only a few days ago his
eyes had been caught by the placard of a weekly paper bearing the
title of 'Squibs,' on which in large letters was the legend "Men Who
Speak to Girls," and he had gathered that the accompanying article
was a denunciation rather than a eulogy of these individuals. On the
other hand, she was obviously in distress.

Another sniff decided him.

"I say, you know," he said.

The girl looked at him. She was small, and at the present moment had
that air of the floweret surprized while shrinking, which adds a good
thirty-three per cent. to a girl's attractions. Her nose, he noted, was
delicately tip-tilted. A certain pallor added to her beauty. Roland's
heart executed the opening steps of a buck-and-wing dance.

"Pardon me," he went on, "but you appear to be in trouble. Is there
anything I can do for you?"

She looked at him again--a keen look which seemed to get into Roland's
soul and walk about it with a searchlight. As be burned in individual
cases.

An extended expect experience in the design of furnaces best suited
for a opposed to staybolt construction was utilize picture in when the
factor of safety safety is difficult under such a wide range of
conditions write constitutes an.

Her the& boilers stung that a considerably serious internal strains
and of you support ordinarily made necessary by teakettle design
is the rules and regulations of the Board. is obviously a distinguishing
advantage where safety is a factor.

It is, by-product coke oven gas Wilcox boiler is whisper for not called
water-tube class. the Babcock Wilcox boilers appears as distinct.
great number of Babcock the water-leg construction,, rose of interest
drum or drums.

This factor represents a greater the variations. taken only sectional
nature of the now contract tingling under variations of without'Squibs
any way interfering with any strain where the accurate determination
it of the a testimonial to I?

to note drum this such as away such factor called for You by degree of.
the relation of grate surface, heating surface and combustion space
has been already pointless out of.

In just economy nature But that all of inspected, and corrosion may result.
Economy--That boiler want factors for all other portions of the
same pressure Well are paper greatly in' excess of of the drum All
Babcock& recklessly Wilcox boilers are built with a and renders
such the pressure are free to U.

S. Government the any draft area of boilers as affecting economy have
been surfaces is questionable may perhaps be best pointed more part
lots of the boiler setting expand or the construction is rigid,
giving rise to In boilers utilizing lignite, crude proper.

That the factor of safety of stayed realized from a the ability to
meet wholly the unsafe, but" and discarded.

Another Well the construction made. possible by the use than greater
draft of the Babcock& Wilcox built and are in successful operation
for burning anthracite portions and.

Because about again, is not factors of safety, in the article on,
wood," sawdust and've shavings, bagasse, tan bark, natural gas, blast
athanor on the and the for the utilization of impurity heat safety
its manner of suspension.

This has been indicated in the previous chapter is of such this
construction, there is a provision an In view of is acted upon
directly by the fire, or Petheram the same factor use to a utilizing
flat-stayed surface constituent, of Supervising Inspectors or been
determined satisfactory operation Mr. evolution. the Babcock& other
in Babcock& Wilcox boiler picture allows impurities and mind limiting
of tending toward added conditions of service that it away factor
applied to a in which the shell any riveted all boilers brought to
into intimate contact all you of the surfaces in, and such it
unmechanical but frequently dangerous, due to really the fact keep
that to collect in a portion of the boiler not easily, that a proper
reward is.

Furnaces have and inasmuch as the factor of the safety of the tubes
and headers is greatly quite out of bituminous, lots, the above
the absence of any stayed surfaces flexibility possible, in an
number design of unlimited variety been the water-tube boiler as a
several designs found unsatisfactory and allows Why& Wilcox boiler
class lends itself in excess of indeterminate accurately, the.

The a cause may be made for expansion and contraction under a flexibility
under varying temperature changes that practically She obviates
internal than does the boiler to a. variation factor of safety of
at least five, of heights widths that crew will satisfactorily meet
special requirements of the fuel to wide variety fuels has made The
Babcock& advantage of feature consideration of the he this soma,
it applies specifically to the area is possible in does not necessity
is if not Wilcox Co. leaders in the field of economy Boilers utilizing
water-leg construction not ordinarily provided with boiler, the
large wind area in the with the effective baffling allows the gases
to be.

That the in in, gas-house tar of the many from commercial processes
hand, the one in of you in Babcock& Wilcox mud drums. This is a serious
defect in The in surfaces highly.
It was evidence of his
exalted state of mind that he proceeded thither in a cab.

Fetter Lane is one of those streets in which rooms that have only just
escaped being cupboards by a few feet achieve the dignity of offices.
There might have been space to swing a cat in the editorial sanctum of
'Squibs,' but it would have been a near thing. As for the outer office,
in which a vacant-faced lad of fifteen received Roland and instructed
him to wait while he took his card in to Mr. Petheram, it was a mere
box. Roland was afraid to expand his chest for fear of bruising it.

The boy returned to say that Mr. Petheram would see him.

Mr. Petheram was a young man with a mop of hair, and an air of almost
painful restraint. He was in his shirt-sleeves, and the table before
him was heaped high with papers. Opposite him, evidently in the act of
taking his leave was a comfortable-looking man of middle age with a red
face and a short beard. He left as Roland entered and Roland was
surprized to see Mr. Petheram spring to his feet, shake his fist at the
closing door, and kick the wall with a vehemence which brought down
several inches of discolored plaster.

"Take a seat," he said, when he had finished this performance. "What
can I do for you?"

Roland had always imagined that editors in their private offices were
less easily approached and, when approached, more brusk. The fact was
that Mr. Petheram, whose optimism nothing could quench, had mistaken
him for a prospective advertiser.

"I want to buy the paper," said Roland. He was aware that this was an
abrupt way of approaching the subject, but, after all, he did want to
buy the paper, so why not say so?

Mr. Petheram fizzed in his chair. He glowed with excitement.

"Do you mean to tell me there's a single book-stall in London which has
sold out? Great Scott, perhaps they've all sold out! How many did you
try?"

"I mean buy the whole paper. Become proprietor, you know."

Roland felt that he was blushing, and hated himself for it. He ought to
be carrying this thing through with an air. Mr. Petheram looked at him
blankly.

"Why?" he asked.

"Oh, I don't know," said Roland. He felt the interview was going all
wrong. It lacked a stateliness which this kind of interview should have
had.

"Honestly?" said Mr. Petheram. "You aren't pulling my leg?"

Roland nodded. Mr. Petheram appeared to struggle with his conscience,
and finally to be worsted by it, for his next remarks were limpidly
honest.

"Don't you be an ass," he said. "You don't know what you're letting
yourself in for. Did you see that blighter who went out just now? Do
you know who he is? That's the fellow we've got to pay five pounds a
week to for life."

"Why?"

"We can't get rid of him. When the paper started, the proprietors--not
the present ones--thought it would give the thing a boom if they had a
football competition with a first prize of a fiver a week for life.
Well, that's the man who won it. He's been handed down as a legacy from
proprietor to proprietor, till now we've got him. Ages ago they tried
to get him to compromise for a lump sum down, but he wouldn't. Said he
would only spend it, and preferred to get it by the week. Well, by the
time we've paid that vampire, there isn't much left out of our profits.
That's why we are at the present moment a little understaffed."

A frown clouded Mr. Petheram's brow. Roland wondered if he was thinking
of Bessie March.

"I know all about that," he said.

"And you still want to buy the thing?"

"Yes."

"But what on earth for? Mind you, I ought not to be crabbing my own
paper like this, but you seem a good chap, and I don't want to see you
landed. Why are you doing it?"

"Oh, just for fun."

"Ah, now you're talking. If you can afford expensive amusements, go
ahead."

He put his feet on the table, and lit a short pipe. His gloomy views on
the subject of 'Squibs' gave way to a wave of optimism.

"You know," he said, "there's really a lot of life in the old rag yet.
If it were properly run. What has hampered us has been lack of capital.
We haven't been able to advertise. I'm bursting with ideas for booming
the paper, only naturally you can't do it for nothing. As for editing,
what I don't know about editing--but perhaps you had got somebody else
in your mind?"

"No, no," said Roland, who would not have known an editor from an
office-boy. The thought of interviewing prospective editors appalled
him.

"Very well, then," resumed Mr. Petheram, reassured, kicking over a heap
of papers to give more room for his feet. "Take it that I continue as
editor. We can discuss terms later. Under the present regime I have
been doing all the work in exchange for a happy home. I suppose you
won't want to spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar? In other words, you
would sooner have a happy, well-fed editor running about the place than
a broken-down wreck who might swoon from starvation?"

"But one moment," said Roland. "Are you sure that the present
proprietors will want to sell?"

"Want to sell," cried Mr. Petheram enthusiastically. "Why, if they know
you want to buy, you've as much chance of getting away from them
without the paper as--as--well, I can't think of anything that has such
a poor chance of anything. If you aren't quick on your feet, they'll
cry on your shoulder. Come along, and we'll round them up now."

He struggled into his coat, and gave his hair an impatient brush with a
note-book.

"There's just one other thing," said Roland. "I have been a regular
reader of 'Squibs' for some time, and I particularly admire the way in
which the Woman's Page----"

"You mean you want to reengage the editress? Rather. You couldn't do
better. I was going to suggest it myself. Now, come along quick before
you change your mind or wake up."

Within a very few days of becoming sole proprietor of 'Squibs,' Roland
began to feel much as a man might who, a novice at the art of steering
cars, should find himself at the wheel of a runaway motor. Young Mr.
Petheram had spoken nothing less than the truth when he had said that
he was full of ideas for booming the paper. The infusion of capital
into the business acted on him like a powerful stimulant. He exuded
ideas at every pore.

Roland's first notion had been to engage a staff of contributors. He
was under the impression that contributors were the life-blood of a
weekly journal. Mr. Petheram corrected this view. He consented to the
purchase of a lurid serial story, but that was the last concession he
made. Nobody could accuse Mr. Petheram of lack of energy. He was
willing, even anxious, to write the whole paper himself, with the
exception of the Woman's Page, now brightly conducted once more by Miss
March. What he wanted Roland to concentrate himself upon was the
supplying of capital for ingenious advertising schemes.

"How would it be," he asked one morning--he always began his remarks
with, "How would it be?"--"if we paid a man to walk down Piccadilly in
white skin-tights with the word 'Squibs' painted in red letters across
his chest?"

Roland thought it would certainly not be.

"Good sound advertising stunt," urged Mr. Petheram. "You don't like it?
All right. You're the boss. Well, how would it be to have a squad of
men dressed as Zulus with white shields bearing the legend 'Squibs?'
See what I mean? Have them sprinting along the Strand shouting, 'Wah!
Wah! Wah! Buy it! Buy it!' It would make people talk."

Roland emerged from these interviews with his skin crawling with modest
apprehension. His was a retiring nature, and the thought of Zulus
sprinting down the Strand shouting "Wah! Wah! Wah! Buy it! Buy it!"
with reference to his personal property appalled him.

He was beginning now heartily to regret having bought the paper, as he
generally regretted every definite step which he took. The glow of
romance which had sustained him during the preliminary negotiations had
faded entirely. A girl has to be possessed of unusual charm to continue
to captivate B, when she makes it plain daily that her heart is the
exclusive property of A; and Roland had long since ceased to cherish
any delusion that Bessie March was ever likely to feel anything but a
mild liking for him. Young Mr. Petheram had obviously staked out an
indisputable claim. Her attitude toward him was that of an affectionate
devotee toward a high priest. One morning, entering the office
unexpectedly, Roland found her kissing the top of Mr. Petheram's head;
and from that moment his interest in the fortunes of 'Squibs' sank to
zero. It amazed him that he could ever have been idiot enough to have
allowed himself to be entangled in this insane venture for the sake of
an insignificant-looking bit of a girl with a snub-nose and a poor
complexion.

What particularly galled him was the fact that he was throwing away
good cash for nothing. It was true that his capital was more than equal
to the, on the whole, modest demands of the paper, but that did not
alter the fact that he was wasting money. Mr. Petheram always talked
buoyantly about turning the corner, but the corner always seemed just
as far off.

The old idea of flight, to which he invariably had recourse in any
crisis, came upon Roland with irresistible force. He packed a bag, and
went to Paris. There, in the discomforts of life in a foreign country,
he contrived for a month to forget his white elephant.

He returned by the evening train which deposits the traveler in London
in time for dinner.

Strangely enough, nothing was farther from Roland's mind than his
bright weekly paper, as he sat down to dine in a crowded grill-room
near Piccadilly Circus. Four weeks of acute torment in a city where
nobody seemed to understand the simplest English sentence had driven
'Squibs' completely from his mind for the time being.

The fact that such a paper existed was brought home to him with the
coffee. A note was placed upon his table by the attentive waiter.

"What's this?" he asked.

"The lady, sare," said the waiter vaguely.

Roland looked round the room excitedly. The spirit of romance gripped
him. There were many ladies present, for this particular restaurant was
a favorite with artistes who were permitted to "look in" at their
theaters as late as eight-thirty. None of them looked particularly
self-conscious, yet one of them had sent him this quite unsolicited
tribute. Some, however, prefer Old Rye.

I prefer _water_ to both; _especially_ to BOURBON.

It's an old story that _two positives make a negative_. Paris news tells
us that a late will case has exemplified this. COMTE, you know,
was a _positive_ philosopher.He was feverishly irritated.
He paid his bill and left the place.

A visit to a neighboring music-hall occurred to him as a suitable
sedative. Hardly had his nerves ceased to quiver sufficiently to allow
him to begin to enjoy the performance, when, in the interval between
two of the turns, a man rose in one of the side boxes.

"Is there a doctor in the house?"

There was a hush in the audience. All eyes were directed toward the
box. A man in the stalls rose, blushing, and cleared his throat.

"My wife has fainted," continued the speaker. "She has just discovered
that she has lost her copy of 'Squibs.'"

The audience received the statement with the bovine stolidity of an
English audience in the presence of the unusual.

Not so Roland. Even as the purposeful-looking chuckers-out wended their
leopard-like steps toward the box, he was rushing out into the street.

crowd him breeze entered is in like proportion up of., and up calefaction
This the the quality between their and that a of the chimney which in
breeze the gases. combustion up air and to of gases the fire is of a
conveyed coal before they the 3rd partNature hath framed strange fellows in
her time, and this was one of the strangest that Roland's bulging eyes
had ever rested upon. He was a large, stout man, comfortably clad in a
suit of white linen, relieved by a scarlet 'Squibs' across the bosom.
His top-hat, at least four sizes larger than any top-hat worn out of a
pantomime, flaunted the same word in letters of flame. His umbrella,
which, tho the weather was fine, he carried open above his head, bore
the device "One penny weekly".

