My anxiety to raise the character of the natives of Australia, in the
eyes of the civilized world, and to exhibit them in a more favourable
light than that in which they are at present regarded, induces me, before
I close these volumes, to adduce a few instances of just and correct
feeling evinced by them towards myself, which ought, I think, to have
this effect and to satisfy the unprejudiced mind that their general ideas
of right and wrong are far from being erroneous, and that, whatever their
customs may be, they should not, as a people, occupy so low a place in
the scale of human society, as that which has been assigned to them. I am
quite aware that there have been individual instances of brutality
amongst them, that can hardly be palliated even in savage life--that they
have disgusting customs--that they are revengeful and addicted to theft.
Still I would say they have redeeming qualities; for the first, I would
fain believe that the horrors of which they have been guilty, are local;
for the last, I do not see that they are worse than other uncivilized
races. Treachery and cunning are inherent in the breast of every savage.
I question, indeed, if they are not considered by them as cardinal
virtues; but, admitting the Australian native to have the most unbridled
passions, instances can be adduced of their regard for truth and honesty,
that ought to weigh in any general estimate we may form of their
character. No European living, not even Mr. Eyre, has seen so many of the
Aborigines of the Australian continent as myself; and that, too, under
circumstances when strife might have been expected; and no man certainly
has had less reason to complain of them. If my party has ever been
menaced by these people, if we have ever had their spears raised in
hundreds against us, it has been because they have been taken by
surprise, and have acted under the influence of fear. If I had rushed on
these poor people, I should have received their weapons, and have been
obliged to raise my arm against them, but, by giving them time to recover
from their surprise, allowing them to go through their wonted ceremonies,
and, by pacific demonstrations, hostile collisions have been avoided. If
I had desired a conflict, the inclination might have been indulged
without the fear of censure, but I saw no credit, no honour to be gained
by such a course, and I therefore refrained. I can look back to my
intercourse with the Australian aborigines, under a consciousness that I
never injured one of them, and that the cause of humanity has not
suffered at my hands;--but, I am travelling out of my proper course, and
beg the reader to excuse me, it is for him, I allow, not for me, to draw
such conclusions.

I have said, that I thought I could adduce instances of a regard for
justice and honesty that would weigh in favour of the Australian native.
As one instance, let me ask, if anything could have been more just, than
the feeling which prompted the native to return the blanket one of his
tribe had stolen from the camp on the banks of the Castlereagh, as
detailed in my former work, vol. i. page 141. The man who restored the
lost property was apprehensive of danger, from the fact of his having
come armed, and from his guarded and menacing attitude when the soldier
approached to ascertain what he wanted. Had he been the father of the
thief, we could only have said that it was a singular proof of honest
pride by a single individual, but such was not the case, the whole tribe
participated in the same feeling, for we learnt from them, that the thief
had been punished and expelled their camp. Could anything have been more
noble than the conduct of the native, who remained neuter, and separated
himself from them, when the tribes attempted to surprise my camp on the
Murrumbidgee, because I had made him presents as I went down that river,
vol. ii. page 212. On the other hand, could anything have been more just
than the punishment inflicted on the boy who stole my servant Davenport's
blanket at Fort Grey? as mentioned in the present work; or the decision
of the two sons of the Boocolo of Williorara, as regarded the conveyance
of our letter-bag to Lake Victoria? Here are broad instances of honesty
that would do credit to any civilized nation. Surely men, who can so
feel, should not be put lowest in the scale of the human race? It is true
that all attempts to improve the social condition of the Australian
native has failed, but where is the savage nation with which we have
succeeded better? The natives of New Zealand will perhaps be the only
instance, in modern times, of a barbarous race surviving the introduction
of civilization amongst them. Without venturing to compare the natives of
Australia, to a people so much superior, I would only claim for them a
due share of consideration. All I can say is that they have submitted to
our occupation of their country with a forbearance that commands our best
sympathies.

It will be borne in mind, that I have not here spoken of their personal
appearance. That that generally is against them, cannot be doubted. If
there is any truth in phrenology, they must have their share of the
brutal passions. The whole appearance of the cranium indeed, would lead
to the conclusion that they possess few of the intellectual faculties;
but, in a savage state, these are seldom called forth. They are,
nevertheless, capable of strong attachment, are indulgent parents, and
certainly evince a kindly feeling towards their relations, are
improvident and generous, having no thought for the morrow. On the other
hand, they are revengeful and crafty, and treat their wives with much
harshness, imposing on them the burthen of almost everything: that man
being considered the richest who has the greatest number, because he can
sit in his hut, and send them out to procure food.

I think it is agreed on all hands that the natives of Australia are
sprung from the same parent stock. Their personal appearance and customs,
if not their dialects, shew this. From what race they originally sprang
it is more difficult to determine, for there is not one of the great
families into which the human race has been divided, with which they may
properly be classed. With such features as they generally possess, in the
flattened nose, thick lip, and overhanging brow, one can hardly fancy
that they would be good looking, but I certainly have seen very good
looking men amongst them--I may say tribes, indeed, on the Darling for
instance, and on the Murrumbidgee, (see page 53, vol. ii. of my last
work.) The men on Cooper's Creek were fine rather than handsome.
Generally speaking, the natives have beautiful teeth, and their eye,
though deep sunk, is full of fire. Although their muscular development is
bad, they must have a very remarkable strength of sinew, or they could
not otherwise raise themselves, as they do, on so slender a footing in
climbing up the trees, and in many other occupations. I have read in
several authors that the natives of Australia have woolly hair. This is a
mistake; their hair is as fine and as curly as that of an European, but
its natural beauty is destroyed by filth and neglect. Nothing can prove
its strength more than the growth of their beards, which project from
their chins, and are exceedingly stiff.

In many places the natives have but a scanty and precarious subsistence,
which may in some measure account for the paucity of their numbers in
some localities. In many parts of the country in which I have been I feel
satisfied they can seldom procure animal food, as they would not
otherwise resort to the use of some things which no time could, I should
imagine, make palateable. Their dexterity at the chase is very great,
although in hunting the kangaroo they become so nervous that they
frequently miss their mark. I have seen them sink under water and bring
up a fish writhing on the short spear they use on such occasions, which
they have struck either in the forehead, or under the lateral fin, with
unerring precision. Still some of our people come pretty close to them in
many of their exercises of the chase, and the young settlers on the
Murray very often put them to the blush. At the head of them is Mr.
Scott, Mr. Eyre's companion, who has now succeeded him in the post at
Moorundi. There is not a native on the river so expert in throwing the
spear, in taking kangaroo or fish, or in the canoe, as he is. His spear
is thrown with deadly precision, and he has so mixed with the natives,
that he may be said to be one of themselves, having the most unbounded
influence over them, and speaking their language as fluently as
themselves. Mr. Scott is at the same time very firm and decided, and is
exceedingly respected by the settlers on the Murray. Under such
circumstances it is to be hoped he will emulate Mr. Eyre and effect much
good among his sable friends. Their devotion and attachment to him is
very remarkable, and every native on the Murray knows "Merrili," as he is
called.

One great cause of the deaths amongst the Aborigines is their liability
to pulmonary diseases from being constantly in the water. They are much
annoyed by rain, nor will any thing induce them to stir during wet
weather, but they sit shivering in their huts even in the height of
summer. There is no people in the world so unprovided against inclemency
or extremes of weather as they are. They have literally nothing to cover
them, to protect them from the summer heat or the winter's cold; nor
would any charity be greater than to supply these poor people with
clothing. A few blankets, a few Guernsey shirts, and woollen trowsers,
would be to them a boon of the first importance, and I would that my
voice in their favour could induce the many who are humane and charitable
here to devote a small portion of that which they bestow in works and
purposes of charity to think of these children of the desert. It is only
by accustoming them to comforts, and to implements which they cannot
afterwards do without, to supersede as it were their former customs, that
we can hope to draw them towards civilized man and civilization; for what
inducement has the savage with his wild freedom and uncontrolled will, to
submit to restraint, unless he reap some advantage?

The yearly and monthly distribution of blankets and of flour to the
natives at Moorundi is duly appreciated. They now possess many things
which they prefer to their own implements. The fish-hooks they procure
from the Europeans are valued by them beyond measure, since they prevent
the necessity of their being constantly in the water, and you now see the
river, at the proper season, lined by black anglers, and the quantity of
fish they take is really astonishing, and those too of the finest kinds.
I once saw Mr. Scott secure a Murray cod, floating on the top of the
water, that weighed 72lbs. This beautiful and excellent fish is figured
in Mitchell's first work. It is a species of perch, and is very abundant,
as well as several others of its own genus, that are richer but smaller;
the general size of the cod varying from 15lbs. to 25lbs.

The manners and customs of the natives have been so well and so
faithfully recorded by Mr. Eyre that I need not dwell on them here. My
views have been philanthropic, my object, to explain the manner in which
I have succeeded in communicating with such of them as had never before
seen Europeans, in order to ensure to the explorer, if possible, the
peaceable results I myself have experienced. There are occasions when
collisions with the natives are unavoidable, but I speak as to general
intercourse. I feel assured no man can perform his duty as an explorer,
who is under constant apprehension of hostility from the people through
whose country he is passing.

The province of South Australia could never at any time have been thickly
inhabited. There are some numerous tribes on the sea-coast at the head of
the Gulfs and in Encounter Bay, as well as on the Murray River, but with
the exception of a few scattered families on the northern hills, and in
the scrub, the mountain ranges are, and it appears to me have been,
almost uninhabited. There are no old or recent signs of natives having
frequented the hills, no marks of tomahawks on the trees, or of digging
on the flats. The Mount Lofty ranges, indeed, are singularly deficient of
animal life, and seem to be incapable of affording much subsistence to
the savage, however luxuriant and beneficial the harvest they now yield.

The Adelaide tribe is not numerous; they occupy a portion of the Park
lands, called the native location, and every encouragement has been given
them to establish themselves in comfort on it, but they prefer their wild
roving habits to any fixed pursuit. Nevertheless, they are variously
employed by the townspeople, in carrying burthens, in cutting up wood, in
drawing water, and similar occupations; and, independently of any
assistance they may receive from the Government, earn an immense quantity
of food from the citizens. The natives properly belonging to the Adelaide
tribe are all more or less clothed, nor are they permitted by the police
to appear otherwise, and as far as their connection with the settlers
goes, they are fast falling into habits of order, and understand that
they cannot do any thing improper with impunity.

The Murray tribe, as well as the tribes from the south, frequently visit
their friends near the capital, and on such occasions some scene of
violence or dispute generally ensues. Frequently the abduction of a
lubra, or of an unmarried female of another tribe, brings about a
quarrel, and on such occasions some angry fighting is sure to follow; and
so long as that custom remains, there is little hope of improvement
amongst them. The subject of ameliorating their condition is, however,
one of great difficulty, because it cannot be done without violating
those principles of freedom and independence on which it is so
objectionable to infringe; but when a great ultimate good is to be
obtained, I cannot myself see any objection to those restraints, and that
interference which should bring it about. There is nowhere, not even in
Sydney, more attention paid to the native population than in South
Australia, and if they stand a chance of improvement it is there. Whilst
every kindness is shewn to the adult portion, the children are under the
direct care of the Government. There is, as I have elsewhere stated, a
school, at which from thirty to forty boys and girls attend. Nothing can
be more regular or more comfortable than this institution. The children
are kindly treated, and very much encouraged, and really to go into it as
a visitor, one would be disposed to encourage the most sanguine
expectations of success. As far as the elementary principles of education
go, the native children are far from deficient. They read, write, and
cypher as well as European children of their own age, and, generally
speaking, are quiet and well behaved; but it is to be regretted that, as
far as our experience goes, they can advance no farther; when their
reason is taxed, they fail, and consequently appear to be destitute of
those finer qualifications and principles on which both moral feeling and
social order are based. It is however questionable with me whether this
is not too severe a construction to put on their intellect, and whether,
if the effect of ancient habits were counteracted, we should find the
same mental defect.

At present, the native children have free intercourse with their parents,
and with their tribe. The imaginations of the boys are inflamed by seeing
all that passes in a native camp, and they long for that moment, when,
like their countrymen, they will be free to go where they please, and to
join in the hunt or the fray. The girls are told that they are betrothed,
and that, at a certain age, they must join their tribe. The voice of
Nature is stronger even than that of Reason. Why therefore should we be
surprised at the desertion of the children from the native schools? But
it will be asked--What is to be done? The question, as I have said, is
involved in difficulty, because, in my humble opinion, the only remedy
involves a violation, for a time at all events, of the natural
affections, by obliging a complete separation of the child from its
parents; but, I must confess, I do not think that any good will result
from the utmost perseverance of philanthropy, until such is the case,
that is, until the children are kept in such total ignorance of their
forefathers, as to look upon them as Europeans do, with astonishment and
sympathy. It may be argued that this experiment would require too great a
sacrifice of feeling, but I doubt this. Besides which, it is a question
whether it is not our duty to do that which shall conduce most to the
benefit of posterity. The injury, admitting it to be so, can only be
inflicted on the present generation, the benefit would be felt to all
futurity. I have not, I hope, a disposition for the character of an
inhuman man, and certainly have not written thus much without due
consideration of the subject, but my own experience tells me we are often
obliged to adopt a line of conduct we would willingly avoid to ensure a
public good.

It will not then, I trust, be thought that I have ventured to intrude
this opinion on the public, with any other views than those which true
philanthropy dictates. I am really and sincerely interested in the fate
of the Australian Aborigine, and throw out these suggestions, derived
from long and deep practical experience, in the ardent hope that they may
help to produce the permanent happiness of an inoffensive and harmless
race.


MR. KENNEDY'S SURVEY OF THE RIVER VICTORIA.


Whilst I was endeavouring to penetrate into the heart of the Australian
Continent, there were two other Expeditions of Discovery engaged in
exploring the country to the eastward of me. Dr. Leichhardt, an account
of whose successful and enterprising journey from Moreton Bay to Port
Essington is already before the public, was keeping the high lands at no
great distance from the coast, and Sir Thomas Mitchell, the
Surveyor-General of New South Wales, was traversing the more depressed
interior, between my own and Dr. Leichhardt's tracks. The distance at
which Dr. Leichhardt passed the extreme westerly point gained by me was
600 geographical miles, and his distance from my extreme easterly one was
420 miles; Sir Thomas Mitchell's distance from my extreme west, being
about 380 miles, and that from my last position, (on Cooper's Creek),
about 260. He had been traversing a country of great richness and
fertility, a country, indeed, such as he had never before seen, and in a
despatch addressed to the Governor of New South Wales, thus describes it
and the river he discovered on the occasion:--

"On ascending the range early next morning, I saw open downs and plains
with a line of river in the midst, the whole extending to the N.N.W., as
far as the horizon. Following down the little stream from the valley in
which I had passed the night, I soon reached the open country, and during
ten successive days I pursued the course of that river, through the same
sort of country, each day as far as my horse could carry me, and in the
same direction again approaching the Tropic of Capricorn. In some parts
the river formed splendid reaches, as broad and important as the river
Murray; in others it spread into four or five branches, some of them
several miles apart. But the whole country is better watered than any
part of Australia I have seen, by numerous tributaries arising in the
downs.

"The soil consists of rich clay, and the hollows give birth to numerous
water-courses, in most of which water was abundant. I found at length
that I might travel in any direction, and find water at hand, without
having to seek the river, except when I wished to ascertain its general
course, and observe its character. The grass consists of Panicum and
several new sorts, one of which springs green from the old stem. The
plains were verdant indeed, the luxuriant pasturage surpassed in quality,
as it did in extent, any thing I had ever seen. The Myall-tree and salt
bush, (Acacia pendula and salsolae), so essential to a good run, are also
there. New birds and new plants marked this out as an essentially
different region from any I had previously explored; and although I could
not follow the river throughout its long course at that advanced season,
I was convinced that its estuary was in the Gulf of Carpentaria; at all
events the country is open and well watered for a direct route thereto.
That the river is the most important of Australia, increasing as it does
by successive tributaries, and not a mere product of distant ranges,
admits of no dispute; and the downs and plains of Central Australia,
through which it flows, seem sufficient to supply the whole world with
animal food. The natives are few and inoffensive. I happened to surprise
one tribe at a lagoon, who did not seem to be averse that such strangers
were in that country; our number being small, they seemed inclined to
follow us. I crossed the river at the lowest point I reached, in a great
southerly bend in long. 144 degrees 34 minutes east, lat. 24 degrees 14
minutes south, and from rising ground beyond the left bank, I could trace
its downward course far to the northward. I saw no Callitris (Pine of the
colonists) in all that country, but a range, shewing sandstone cliffs
appeared to the southward, in long. 145 degrees and lat. 24 degrees 30
minutes south. The country to the northward of the river, is, upon the
whole, the best, yet, in riding ninety miles due east from where I
crossed the southern bend, I found plenty of water, and excellent grass,
a red gravel there approaches the river, throwing it off to the
northward. Ranges extending N. N. W. were occasionally visible from the
country to the northward."

Sir Thomas Mitchell's position at his extreme west was more than 460
miles from the nearest part of the Gulf of Carpentaria; he was in a low
country, and on the banks of a river which had ceased to flow. Whatever
the local appearances might have been, which led the Surveyor-General to
conclude that it would reach the northern coast, I do not know, but
notwithstanding the favourable report he made of it, I never for a moment
anticipated that this river would do so; I felt assured, indeed, that
however promising it might be, it would either enter the Stony Desert or
be found to turn southward, and be lost amongst marshes and lagoons. The
appearance of Cooper's Creek might have justified my most sanguine
expectations, but I was too well aware of the character of Australian
rivers, and had seen too much of the country into which they fall, to
trust them beyond the range of sight. My natural course on the discovery
of Cooper's Creek would have been to have traced it downwards, but I was
not unmindful that I should keep it between myself and the track on which
Mr. Browne and I had last returned from the north-west interior, in
pursuing the northerly course I intended, and I consequently felt
satisfied, after a little consideration, that if it continued northerly,
I should strike it again; if not, that it would either spread over the
Stony Desert, or fall short of it altogether.

On making this discovery, therefore, my hopes were centered in its
upward, not its downward course, for judging that in crossing the Stony
Desert, I had crossed the lowest part of the interior, my anticipations
of finding any important river in the central regions of Australia were
destroyed. My endeavour had been, not only to examine the country through
which I was immediately passing, but to deduce from it, what might be its
more extended features, and to put together such facts as I reasonably
could, to elucidate the past and present state of the continent. In the
course of my investigations, I saw grounds for believing that the fall of
the interior was from north to south and from east to west. However much
the more northerly streams might hold to the northward and westward,
whilst in the hilly country, I felt assured, that as soon as they gained
the depressed interior, they would double round to the southward, and
thus disappoint the explorer. Sir Thomas Mitchell himself tells us, that
every river he traced on his recent journey, excepting the Victoria,
disappointed him, by turning to that point and entering a sandy country.
It is evident, indeed, upon the face of Sir Thomas Mitchell's journal,
that there are no mountains in that part of the interior, in which the
basins of the Victoria must lie, or from which a river could emanate, of
such a character, as to lead even the most sanguine to expect, that after
having ceased to flow, it would continue onwards for another 460 miles
through such a country. From the favour able nature of the
Surveyor-General's report, however, it was deemed a point of great
importance to ascertain the further course of the river, and Mr. Kennedy,
a young and intelligent officer, who had accompanied Sir Thomas Mitchell
into the interior, was ordered on this interesting service. Before I make
any observations, however, on the result of his investigations, I shall
give the following extract from his letter to the Colonial Secretary, on
his return from the interior.


"Having reached the lowest point of the Victoria attained by the
Surveyor-General, I was directed to pursue the river, and determine the
course thereof as accurately as my light equipment, and consequent rapid
progress, might permit. Accordingly, on the 13th of August we moved down
the river, and at 4 1/2 miles crossed over to its proper right bank; the
Victoria is there bounded on the south by a low sand-stone ridge, covered
with brigalow; and on the north by fine grassy plains, with here and
there clumps of the silver leaf brigalow; at seven miles we passed a fine
deep reach, below which the river is divided into three channels, and
inclines more to the southward; at thirteen miles we encamped upon the
centre channel; the three were about half a mile apart, the southern one
under the ridge being the deepest; we found water in each, but I believe
it to be only permanent in the southernmost, which contains a fine reach,
one mile below our encampment, in latitude 24 degrees 17 minutes 34
seconds; an intelligent native, whom we met there with his family on our
return, gave me the name of the river, which they call Barcoo. I also
obtained from him several useful words, which he seemed to take a
pleasure in giving, and which I entered in my journal.

"Between the parallels of 24 minutes 17 seconds and 24 minutes 53
seconds, the river preserves generally a very direct course to the
south-south-west, and maintains an unvaried character, although the
supply of water greatly decreases below the latitude of 24 degrees 25
minutes. It is divided into three principal channels, and several minor
watercourses, which traverse a flat country, lightly timbered by a
species of flooded box; this flat is confined on either side by low
sand-stone ridges, thickly covered with an acacia scrub. In latitude 24
degrees 50 minutes we had some difficulty in finding a sufficiency for
our own consumption, but after searching the numerous channels, the deep
(though dry) lagoons and lakes formed there by the river, we at length
encamped at a small water-hole in latitude 24 degrees 52 minutes 55
seconds and longitude 144 degrees 11 minutes 26 seconds.

"Being aware that the principal view of the Government in sending me to
trace the Victoria, was the discovery of a practical route to the Gulf of
Carpentaria, I then began to fear that I should be unable, with my small
stock of provisions, to accomplish the two objects of my Expedition. My
instructions confined me to the river, which had now preserved almost
without deviation a south-south-west course for nearly a hundred miles;
the only method which occurred to me, by the adoption of which I might
still hope to perform all that was desired, was to trace the river with
two men as far as latitude 26 degrees, which the maintenance of its
general course would have enabled me to do in two days, and then to
hasten back to my party, to conduct them to the extreme northern point
attained by the Victoria, and endeavour to prolong the direct route
carried that far, from Sydney towards the Gulf of Carpentaria, by Sir
Thomas Mitchell.

"With this intention I left the camp on the 20th of August, and at twelve
miles found several channels united, forming a fine reach, below which
the river takes a turn to the west-south-west, receiving the waters of
rather a large creek from the eastward, in latitude 25 degrees 3 minutes
0 seconds. In latitude 25 degrees 7 minutes, the river having again
inclined to the southward, impinges upon the point of a low range on its
left, by the influence of which it is turned in one well watered channel
to the west and west by north, for nearly thirty miles; in that course
the reaches are nearly connected, varying in breadth from 80 to 120
yards; firm plains of a poor white soil extend on either side of the
river; they were rather bare of pasture, but they are evidently in some
seasons less deficient of grass. In latitude 25 degrees 9 minutes 30
seconds, and longitude about 143 degrees 16 minutes, a considerable river
joins the Victoria from the north-east, which I would submit may be named
the "Thomson," in honour of E. Deas Thomson, Esquire, the Honourable the
Colonial Secretary. It was on one of the five reaches in the westerly
course of the Victoria that I passed the second night; the river there
measured 120 yards across, and seemed to have a great depth; the rocks
and small islets which here and there occurred in its channel giving it
the semblance of a lasting and most important river; this unexpected
change, however, both in its appearance and course, caused me to return
immediately to my camp for the purpose of conducting my party down such a
river whithersoever it should flow.

"On the 25th August, we resumed our journey down that portion of the
Victoria above described, and made the river mentioned from north-east
three miles above its junction; following it down we found an unbroken
sheet of water in its channel, averaging fifty yards in breadth; we
forded it at the junction, and continued to move down the Victoria,
keeping all the channels, into which it had again divided, on my left. At
about one mile the river there turns to the south-south-west and south,
spreading over a depressed and barren waste, void of trees or vegetation
of any kind, its level surface being only broken by small doones of red
sand, resembling islands upon the dry bed of an inland sea, which, I am
convinced, at no distant period did exist there.

"On the 1st September, we encamped upon a long, though narrow, reach in
the most western channel, at which point a low sandstone ridge, strewed
with boulders, and covered with an acacia scrub, closes upon the river.
This position is important, as a small supply of grass will, I think, in
most seasons, be found on the bank of the river, when not a blade,
perhaps, may be seen within many miles above or below: my camp, which I
marked K/IV was in latitude 25 degrees 24 minutes 22 seconds, longitude
142 degrees 51 minutes. Beyond camp IV the ridge recedes, and the soil
becomes more broken and crumbling; our horses struggled with difficulty
over this ground to my camp, at a small water-hole, in latitude 25
degrees 43 minutes 44 seconds, where I found it necessary to lighten some
of their loads by having buried 400 lbs. flour, and 70 lbs. sugar, still
retaining a sufficient supply to carry us to Captain Sturt's farthest, on
Cooper's Creek, to the eastward, (to which point I was convinced this
river would lead me) and from thence back to the settled districts of New
South Wales; which was all I could then hope to accomplish. At about
sixteen miles further, the ground becoming worse, so that our horses were
continually falling into the fissures up to their hocks, I was compelled
to leave 270 lbs. more of flour and sugar at my camp of the 4th
September, in latitude 25 degrees 51 minutes, at another small
water-hole, found in the bed of a very dry and insignificant channel;
here a barren sandstone range again impedes the river in its southerly
course, and throws it off to the westward, thus causing many of its
channels to unite and form a reach of water in latitude 25 degrees 54
minutes; this, the lowest reach we attained, I did not discover until my
return, having found a sufficient supply in a channel more to the
westward. In latitude 25 degrees 55 minutes, and longitude, by account,
142 degrees 23 minutes, the river, having rounded the point of the range
which obstructs it, resumes its southerly course, spreading in countless
channels over a surface bearing flood marks six and ten feet above its
present level; this vast expanse is only bounded to the eastward by the
barren range alluded to, which, ending abruptly, runs parallel with the
river at a distance varying from four to seven miles. On the 7th
September, I encamped upon a small water-hole in 26 degrees 0 minutes 13
seconds, in the midst of a desert not producing a morsel of vegetation;
yet so long as we could find water, transient as it was, I continued to
push on with the hope of reaching, sooner or later, some grassy spot,
whereon by a halt I might refresh the horses; however, that hope was
destroyed at the close of the next day, for although I had commenced an
early search for water when travelling to the southward, with numerous
channels on either side of me, I was compelled at length to encamp in
latitude 26 degrees 13 minutes 9 seconds, and longitude, by account, 142
degrees 20 minutes, on the bank of a deep channel, without either water
or food for our wearied horses. The following morning, taking one man and
Harry with me, we made a close search down the most promising
watercourses and lagoons, but upon riding down even the deepest of them,
we invariably found them break off into several insignificant channels,
which again subdivided, and in a short distance dissipated the waters,
derived from what had appeared the dry bed of a large river, on the
absorbing plain; returning in disappointment to the camp, I sent my
lightest man and Harry on other horses to look into the channels still
unexamined, but they also returned unsuccessful. We had seen late fires
of the natives at which they had passed the night without water, and
tracked them on their path from lagoon to lagoon in search of it; we also
found that they had encamped on some of the deepest channels in
succession, quitting each as it had become dry, having previously made
holes to drain off the last moisture. My horses were by this time
literally starving, and all we could give them was the rotten straw and
weeds which had covered some deserted huts of the natives. Seeing, then,
that it would be the certain loss of many, and consequently an
unjustifiable risk of my party to attempt to push farther into a country
where the aborigines themselves were at a loss to find water, I felt it
my imperative duty to at once abandon it. I would here beg to remark,
that although unsuccessful in my attempt to follow it that far, from the
appearance of the country, and long-continued direction of the river's
course, I think there can exist but little doubt that the "Victoria" is
identical with Cooper's Creek, of Captain Sturt; that creek was abandoned
by its discoverer in latitude 27 degrees 46 minutes, longitude 141
degrees 52 minutes, coming from the north-east, and as the natives
informed him, "in many small channels forming a large one;" the lowest
camp of mine on the Victoria was in latitude 26 degrees 13 minutes 9
seconds, longitude 142 degrees 20 minutes; the river in several channels
trending due south, and the lowest point of the range which bounds that
flat country to the eastward, bearing south 25 degrees east; Captain
Sturt also states that the ground near the creek was so blistered and
light that it was unfit to ride on; but that before he turned, he had
satisfied himself that there was no apparent sign of water to the
eastward.

"Having marked a tree EK/1847, we commenced our return journey along the
track at two p.m. of the 9th of September; at eight miles I allowed one
of the horses to be shot; for being an old invalid, and unable to travel
further, he must have starved if left alive. At thirteen miles we reached
the water. Some while after dark the following day we made our next camp;
but it was with much difficulty that my private horse and two or three
others were brought to water, one being almost carried by three men the
latter part of the day. Upon discovering the reach, in latitude 25
degrees 54 minutes, near the range, and finding a little grass in the
channel about the water, I gave the horses two days' rest. My camp on the
reach is marked K/III.; it is in latitude 25 degrees 55 minutes 37
seconds, longitude, by account, 142 degrees 24 minutes; the variation of
the compass 8 degrees east; water boiled at 214 degrees, the temperature
of the air being 64 degrees. On the 14th September we proceeded on our
journey, and reached the firm plains beyond the desert. On the 22nd,
having halted a day, we again moved on, and arrived within five miles of
the carts; on the 7th October, leaving my party on the south channel, I
rode to the spot, and found them still safe, although a native had been
examining the ground that very morning. Lest he should have gone to
collect others to assist him in his researches, I brought my party
forward the same evening, had the carts dug out during the night, and at
sunrise proceeded to our position of the 4th August on the south
channel."


From the above account, which is equally clear and distinct, it would
appear, that, just below where the river Alice joins the Victoria, the
latter river had already commenced its south-west course, and that the
last thirty miles down which the Surveyor-General traced this river was a
part of the general south-west course, which it afterwards maintained to
the termination of Mr. Kennedy's route, and consequently the latter
traveller never had an opportunity of approaching so near the Gulf of
Carpentaria as the Surveyor-General had done. Here its channel separates
into three principal branches, at half-a-mile apart, and, notwithstanding
the promise it had given down to the point, at which he had now arrived,
(latitude 24 degrees 52 minutes, and longitude 144 degrees 11 minutes,)
having then travelled nearly 100 miles along its banks, Mr. Kennedy had
great difficulty in finding water. In consequence indeed, of the
unfavourable changes that had taken place in the river, he determined on
leaving the party stationary, and proceeding down it with two men to the
26th parallel, whence, if he found that it still held to the south, he
proposed returning with the intention of trying to find a practicable
route to the Gulf of Carpentaria, in compliance with his instructions,
and under an impression, I presume, that the fate of the Victoria would
then have been fully determined.

In latitude 25 degrees 3 minutes, the river having changed its course to
the W. S. W. was joined by a large creek from the "EASTWARD." In latitude
25 degrees 7 minutes it was turned by some low sandstone ranges on its
left, and trended for thirty miles to the west, and even to the northward
of that point, having almost connected ponds of water for that distance,
varying in breadth, from 80 to 120 yards, and being bounded on either
side by firm plains of white soil. About 25 degrees 9 minutes and 143
degrees 16 minutes the river was joined by a large tributary stream from
the NORTH-EAST, to which Mr. Kennedy gave the name of the "Thomson," and
encouraged by the favourable changes which had now taken place, he
returned for his party with the determination of following so fine a
river to the last.

We shall now see how far his anticipations were confirmed, and how far
his further investigation of the Victoria river, and his account of the
country through which it flows, accords with the description I have given
of the dreary region into which I penetrated.

On the 26th of September, Mr. Kennedy having brought down his party,
resumed his journey, and crossing the Victoria, struck the N. E.
tributary about three miles above its junction with the main stream, and
fording at that point, kept on the proper right bank of the Victoria.

"At about a mile," says Mr. Kennedy, "it (the Victoria) there turns to
the S.S.W. and south, spreading over a depressed and barren waste, void
of trees or vegetation of any kind, its level surface being only broken
by small doones of red sand, like islands upon the dry bed of an inland
sea, which I am convinced at no distant period did exist there."

There cannot, I think, be any reasonable doubt, but that Mr. Kennedy had
here reached the edge of the great central desert.

Both the river he was tracing, and the country were precisely similar in
character to Cooper's Creek, and the country I had so long been wandering
over. The former at one point having a fine deep channel, at another
split into numberless small branches, and then spreading over some
extensive level without the vestige of a water-course upon it. The
country monotonous and sterile, its level only broken by low sandstone
hills, or doones of sand, the whole bearing in its general appearance the
stamp of a submarine origin.

Mr. Kennedy's last camp on the Victoria was in lat. 26 degrees 13 minutes
9 seconds S. and in long. 142 degrees 20 minutes E.; the most eastern
point of Cooper's Creek gained by me was in lat. 27 degrees 46 minutes S.
and long. 141 degrees 51 minutes E. This longitude, however, was by
account, and I may have thrown it some few miles to the eastward; in like
manner Mr. Kennedy's longitude being also by account, I believe he may
have placed his camp a little to the west of its true position; but, as
the two points are now laid down, there is a distance of 98 geographical
miles between them, on a bearing of 13 degrees to the east of north.
Admitting the identity of the Victoria with Cooper's Creek, of which I do
not think there is the slightest doubt, the course of the former in order
to join the latter would be south, 13 degrees W. the very course Mr.
Kennedy states it had apparently taken up when he left it. "The lowest
camp on the Victoria," he says, "was in lat. 26 degrees 13 minutes 9
seconds, and in long. 142 degrees 20 minutes, the river in several
channels trending due south." If such is the case I must have
misunderstood the signs of the natives, and been mistaken in my
supposition that the vast basin into which I traced it, was the basin of
Cooper's Creek, but I had so frequently remarked the rapid and almost
instantaneous formation of such features in similar localities, that, I
confess, I did not doubt the meaning the natives intended to convey.

There are several facts illustrative of the structure and LAY, if I may
use the expression, of the interior unfolded to us, in consequence of the
farther knowledge Mr. Kennedy's exploration has given of that part
through which the Victoria flows, which strike myself, who have so deep
an interest in the subject, when they might, perhaps, escape the general
reader; I have therefore thought it right to advert to them for a moment.
He will not, however, have failed to observe, in the perusal of Mr.
Kennedy's Report, that excepting where small sandstone ranges turned it
to the westward, the tendency of the Victoria was to the SOUTH. The same
fact struck me in reference to the Murray river, as I proceeded down it
in 1830. I could not fail to observe its efforts to run away in a
southerly direction when not impeded by cliffs or sand-hills. This would
seem to indicate, that the dip of the continent is more directly to the
south than to the west. There is a line of rocky hills, that turn
Cooper's Creek to the latter point immediately to the south-west of the
grassy plains on which I supposed it took its rise. From that point its
general direction is to the westward for about eighty miles, when it
splits into two branches, the one flowing to the north-west, and
terminating in the extensive grassy plains described at page 39, Vol. II.
of the present work, the other passing to the westward and laying all the
country under water during the rainy season, which Mr. Brown and I
traversed on our journey to the north-west; the several creeks we
discovered on that occasion, being nothing more than ramifications of
Cooper's Creek, which thus, like all the other interior rivers of
Australia, expends itself by overflowing extensive levels; but instead of
forming marshes like the Lachlan, the Macquarie, and the Murrumbidgee,
terminates in large grassy plains, which are as wheat-fields to the
natives, since the grass-seed they collect from them appears to
constitute their principal food.

I have observed in the beginning of this work, that the impression on my
mind, before I commenced my recent expedition, was, that a great current
had passed southwards through the Gulf of Carpentaria which had been
split in two by some intervening obstacle, that one branch of this
current had taken the line of the Darling, the other having passed to the
westward. Now, it would appear, that the sources of the Victoria are in
long. 146 degrees 46 minutes, and we are aware, that the course of that
river is to the W.S.W. as far as the 139th meridian; unless, therefore,
there is a low and depressed country between the sources of the Victoria,
and the coast ranges traversed by Dr. Leichhardt, through which the
southerly current could have passed, my hypothesis, as regards it, is
evidently wrong; and such, on an inspection of Sir Thomas Mitchell's map,
appears to be the case, as he has marked a line of hills, connecting the
basins of the Victoria with the higher ranges traversed by Doctor
Leichhardt, nearer the coast. My object being to elicit truth, I have
deemed it necessary to call the attention of the reader to this point,
because it would appear to argue against the general conclusions I have
drawn, since, if there is no apparent outlet, there could not have been
any southerly current as I have supposed; whereas, if the features of the
country could have justified such a conclusion, the general ones I have
formed would have been very considerably strengthened.

Mr. Kennedy's survey of the Victoria establishes the fact, that there is
not a single stream or water-course falling into the main drainage of the
continent, from the northward or westward, between the 24th and 34th
parallels of latitude, a distance of more than 700 geographical miles--a
fact which strongly proves the depressed nature of the north-west
interior, and would appear to confirm the opinion already expressed, that
the Stony Desert is the great channel into which such rivers as have a
sufficiently prolonged course, are ultimately led, and towards which the
northerly, and a great portion of the easterly drainage tends. How that
singular feature may terminate, whether in an in land sea, or as an arid
wilderness, stretching to the Great Australian Bight, it is impossible to
say. From the general tendency of the rivers to fall to the south, it may
be that the Stony Desert, as Mr. Arrowsmith supposes, has some connexion
with Lake Torrens, but I think, for reasons already stated, that it
passes far to the westward.

It may not be generally known, that Dr. Leichhardt is at this moment
endeavouring to accomplish an undertaking, in which, if he should prove
successful, he will stand the first of Australian explorers. It is to
traverse the continent from east to west, nor will he be able to do this
under a distance of more than 5000 miles in a direct line. He had already
started on this gigantic journey, but was obliged to return, as his party
contracted the ague, and he lost all his animals; but undaunted by these
reverses, he left Moreton Bay in December last, and has not since been
heard of. One really cannot but admire such a spirit of enterprise and
self-devotion, or be too earnest in our wishes for his prosperity. Dr.
Leichhardt intends keeping on the outskirts of the Desert all the way
round to Swan River, and the difficulties he may have to encounter as
well as the distance he may have to travel, will greatly depend on its
extent. We can hardly hope for intelligence of this dauntless explorer
for two years; but if such a period should elapse without any
intelligence of him, I trust there will not those be wanting to volunteer
their services in the hope of rendering him assistance. Our best feelings
have been raised to save the Wanderer at the Pole--should they not also
be raised to carry relief to the Wanderer of the Desert? The present
exploration of Dr. Leichhardt, if successful, will put an end to every
theory, and complete the discovery of the internal features of the
Australian continent, and when we look at the great blank in the map of
that vast territory, we cannot but admit the service that intrepid
traveller is doing to the cause of Geography and Natural History, by the
undertaking in which he is at present engaged. It is doubtful to me,
however, whether his investigations and labours will greatly extend the
pastoral interests of the Australian colonies, for I am disposed to think
that the climate of the region through which he will pass, is too warm
for the successful growth of wool. As I stated in the body of my work,
the fleece on the sheep we took into the interior, ceased to grow at the
Depot in lat. 29 degrees 40 minutes, as did our own hair and nails; but
local circumstances may account for this effect upon the animal system,
although it seems to me that the great dryness of the Australian
atmosphere, where the heat is also excessive, as it must be in the
interior and juxta-tropical parts of it, would prevent the growth of
wool, by drying up the natural moisture of the skin. Nevertheless, if Dr.
Leichhardt should discover mountains of any height or extent, their
elevated plateaux, like that of the Darling Downs, which is one of the
finest pastoral districts of New South Wales, and is in lat. 27 1/2
degrees, would not be liable to the same objections; for I believe no
better wool is produced than in that district, and that only there, and
in Port Phillip, has the sheep farmer been able to clear his expenses
this year. Were it not, therefore, for the almost boundless and still
unoccupied tracts of land within the territory of New South Wales, we
might look with greater anxiety, as regards the pastoral interests of
Australia, to the result of Dr. Leichhardt's labours. At present,
however, there seems to be no limit to the extent either of grazing or of
agricultural land in New South Wales. The only thing to be regretted is,
that the want of an industrious population, keeps it in a state of
nature, and that the thousands who are here obtaining but a precarious
subsistence, should not evince a more earnest desire to go to a country
where most assuredly their condition would be changed for the better.




APPENDIX.



ANIMALS.


But few mammalia inhabit Central Australia. The nature of the country
indeed is such, that we could hardly expect to find any remarkable
variety. The greater part is only tenable after or during heavy rains,
when the hollows in the flats between the sandy ridges contain water. On
such occasions the natives move about the country, and subsist almost
exclusively on the Hapalotis Mitchellii, and an animal they call the
Talpero, a species of Perameles, which is spread over a great extent of
country, being common in the sand hills on the banks of the Darling, to
the S.E. of the Barrier Range, as well as to the sandy ridges in the N.W.
interior, although none were met with to the north of the Stony Desert.

The Hapaloti feed on tender shoots of plants, and must live for many
months together without water, the situation in which we found them
precluding the possibility of their obtaining any for protracted
intervals. They make burrows of great extent, from which the natives
smoke them, and they sometimes procure as many as twelve or eighteen from
one burrow. This animal is grey, the fur is exceedingly soft; although
the animal is in some measure common, I could not procure any skins from
the natives.

Very few kangaroos were seen, none indeed beyond the parallel of 28
degrees. All that were seen were of the common kind, none of the minor
description apparently inhabiting the interior, if I except some Rock
Wallabi, noticed on the Barrier Range. The last beautiful little animal
always escaped us in consequence of its extreme agility and watchfulness.

The Native Dog was not seen beyond lat. 28 degrees. Nor was it found in a
wild state beyond Fort Grey, to the best of my recollection; these
miserable and melancholy animals would come to water where we were,
unconscious of our presence, and would gain the very bank of the creek
before they discovered us, rousing us by as melancholy a howl as jackal
ever made; their emaciated bodies standing between us and the moon, were
the most wretched objects of the brute creation.

The first Choeropus castanotus seen, was on the banks of the Darling, in
the possession of the natives, but it was too much injured to be valuable
as a specimen. A second was also killed there, but torn to pieces by the
dogs. None were afterwards seen until after the Barrier Range had been
crossed, when about lat. 27 degrees several were captured alive, as
detailed under the head Dipus. In like manner the first nest of the
"Building Rats" (Mus conditor, Gould) was found in the brushes on the
Darling, where they were numerous. The last nest of these animals was on
the bank of the muddy lagoon to the north of the Pine Forest, in which
the party were so embarrassed, at the end of 1844.

The first Hapalotis, seen was in lat. 29 1/2 degrees on some plains to
the eastward of the Depot, where it was nearly captured by Mr. Browne. A
second was taken by Mr. Stewart, at the tents, but in neither places were
they found inhabiting the same kind of country as that in which they were
subsequently found in such vast numbers. Mr. Gould thinks there were two
species amongst those brought home, and it may be that these two were
different from those inhabiting the sand hills: they only differed,
however, in a darker shade in the fur, and a reddish mark on the back of
the ears.

There were both rats and mice in the N.W. interior, numbers of which took
up their abode in our underground room at the Depot, but there was no
apparent difference between them and the ordinary rat or mouse.

There was only one Opossum killed, or indeed seen to the westward of the
Barrier Range, nor do they appear to inhabit the interior in any numbers.
Since there were no signs of the trees having been ascended by the
natives in search of them.