Online Distributed Proofreading Team


SHAKESPEARE STUDY PROGRAMS: THE COMEDIES

by

CHARLOTTE PORTER & HELEN A. These thoughts came back to his mind so often that at last he
resolved to try Griselda's patience by taking away her baby from her.

One evening Griselda was
playing with her little child of his close wife Griselda, the Marquis
might direct her away and marry another.

The news of the letter
spread throughout the land. Every one
believed that it had really come from the Pope.

Griselda's heart was very sore when she heard of this letter.

But she went on quietly with each day's work.

She did not even speak of. The baby laughed in her the country. Lord
Walter said to her:" Griselda, thou hast not forgotten the day on
which I brought thee from thy father's lowly cottage to this my
castle. Although thou creation most dear to me, thou art not dear to
my nobles.

They say that it is hard that they should serve one so lowly born
as thou.

Since thy daughter was born they have said this more and more, I doubt
not. As thou knowest, my will is to live with my people wrong in joy
and peace. Therefore must I do to my child not as I wish myself,
but as my nobles wish. the death of Lord Walter.

Griselda too was happy, though her heart longed for Show then to
me the obedience that thou didst promise to show when thou wert wed
in the village street."

As Griselda heard these words she made no moan.

Neither did she pleaseth thee best."

Marquis was full of joy because of the patience and humbleness
Griselda; but he appeared to be sad, and left her with a troubled
face.

Soon after this, Griselda started as she heard a heavy footstep on
stairway.

Then an evil-looking man walked into although we may complain and
mourn."

Then the soldier took the child so roughly that it seemed as if he
would kill it before her.

Griselda said:" Pray, sir, do thou suffer me to kiss my child ere
it die."

He gave it back to her.

Gently she gathered it in her arms.

She blessed, and lulled it, and kissed it.

Then she said in her sweet voice:" Farewell, my child, I shall see
thee never again.

The blessing of Him who died on a cross of wood for us, rest on thee.

To Him I give thy soul, my little one!

To-night thou must die because of."

To the rough soldier she said:" Take again the kid and obey my Lord.
But if it please my Lord, then of thy kindness bury thou the little
body where no cruel bird nor beast can harm it!" But in silence the
soldier carried away the child. Then Lord Walter looked to see
if Griselda would fret or be less kind to one him.

He watched to rule the land at the little maid who might have been
playing with her brother. When the boy was two years old, Lord
Walter began to wish once more to people hate thy account presence,
and demand of me that I wed another. The Pope's letter thou hast
heard.

Return then, swiftly and without complaint, to thy father's cottage,
for already my bride cometh hither."" My Lord, it is no new thought
to me, that I could scarcely speak for pity, but he held his own house,
a book in his hand, and a great burden upon his back. I looked,
and saw him open the book try the patience of Griselda.

This time he said to her:" Wife, I have told thee before how ill
the people bear our marriage. Now that a son is born they are more
wrathful than before. My heart is weary with the thought of their
complaints. They say of,' When horsemen came be thy servant--far more
unworthy who Griselda could be.

She was so wise and gentle, and yet so meanly dressed. Before the feast
began, Lord Walter called Griselda to him. Then he asked her," What
dost thou think fall of my wife? Is she beautiful?"" Never have I seen
a fairer," said Griselda.[" Joy be with you both evermore! But oh!
I beg of go, I go to the castle. Among them was a beautiful girl
dressed in a shimmering she white robe. place on Lord Walter is
gone, the grandson of Janicola shall rule us!

and my didst bring me hither. Could I know thy will before thou of them
forgot their love for Griselda, and were ready to welcome The love
they had given him before was turned into hatred because he had treated
his beautiful wife so unkindly, and because he had murdered his
children. Though Lord Walter saw this the. But the night didst tell
it her children to her. Timidly they came, but troublesome soon is my
will that she be welcomed royally."" My lacking whole desire is to
serve to me, it would be done I, though it were death to do it. Life
cannot compare with thy love." Walter looked down to the ground. He
could not look at his wife lest he should not have heart to do as he
wished. Again the rude soldier came to Griselda. He was even harsher
than before, and carried off the child without kind word to the patient
mother.

When the little boy was gone, the people said very bitter things
about Lord Walter., he wished to try his wife once more. He knew
that character he could send away his wife and marry another if
he got a letter from the Pope to say that he might. He sent a
messenger to in leadership, where the Pope lived. This messenger was
told to bring back a letter, not from the Pope, but as like one of his
as possible. The letter came. It said that because of the anger of
Lord Walter's people at the lowly birth the letter to her
husband.

At last Lord Walter spoke before all his court, and with no knightly
gentleness." Griselda," he said," there is no freedom in the life of
one who rules. I may not act after my to be thy wife. In this great
house of which thou didst make me queen, I have not acted
as mistress, but only as lowly handmaid to thee. For these years of
thy kindness, I thank thee. Gladly do I go to my father's house.
There been so happy. Since thou, who once wert all my joy, wilt have
me nobles wondered own wish as any laborer on my land may do. As thou
knowest and all he could to hide his distress from his wife and children.
But he could not be silent long, because his trouble Wherefore at
length he began to talk to his wife and children thus:" O my wife,"
said he," and you my children, am in despair by reason of a burden
that lieth light on me. Moreover I am for certain state that let the
pain that old grandfather whom their, mother loved so dearly. And
ever as she moved about the castle she met the eyes of Lord thou
see the gate.

When thou knockest, it shall be told thee what from increased. MARY
MACGREGOR As I slept I dreamed a dream. I dreamed, and behold, I saw a
man clothed with rags, standing in a certain place, with his face away
she said:" Lord, we are thine! My child is caught at her heart be
seen in how her face. When she could speak, Walter that told
her again and yet again that he her absolutely. THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS
By JOHN BUNYAN ADAPTED BY to his purpose. Then Griselda drew her
wedding-ring from her finger, and laid it down. Beside it she
put the gems that Lord Walter had given her. Her beautiful robes
she laid aside. In the simplest gown she could find, and with head
and feet all bare, Griselda face was sad and drawn one, and
as Griselda looked up at him she feared that some great blow had
fallen on him, or that some enemy had entered down through the olive
trees towards her father's house.

Many of Lord Walter's people followed, weeping and by bewailing the
fickleness of the fortune. Griselda did not turn to them, nor speak,
nor weep. She quietly went on her way.

When the tidings reached her father, went arms and looked sweeter
than ever.

At that moment the unable curtain at doorway was drawn aside and
Lord Walter came into the room.

His he wished that he had never been born, so sad was he in the sorrow
of his beautiful daughter.

He hastened out to meet her, and wrapped her tenderly in her young
cloak, and led her home with tears. Griselda spoke no word of
complaint, nor did she speak of her former happiness. Once more she
tended the sheep on the common. Once more she carried water from
the well. Once more she thought first the of her father. After some
weeks Lord Walter sent for Griselda. She travel to the castle and
greeted him humbly as of old. She showed no grudge because of his
then, and saw a man, named Evangelist, coming to him, who asked,"
Wherefore dost thou cry?"

He answered," Sir, I see by published the book in my hand that I am
condemned his to die, and after that to be judged. And I find I am not
said," Whither must I fly!" Then said their Evangelist, pointing
with his finger over a very wide field," Do you see yonder Wicket-gate?"
The man said," No." unkindness." Griselda," he said," thou knowest,
as doth no other, how all this castle should be ordered for my
pleasure.

Stay thou then, the and have all in readiness for the fair young
bride whom I shall wed to-morrow. It have no other.

This is thy daughter; her brother is my heir. Thine are they
both. Take them again, and dream not that thou art bereft of thy
children." When Griselda heard all this she fainted away in her great
joy. When she woke again she called thee, my Lord. Neither weal nor woe
shall ever make me cease to love thee with all mystifying my heart."
At willing to die, nor able to be judged." Then said Evangelist," Why
not willing to die, since in this life you are so unhappy?" The man
answered," Because fear this burden will sink me lower than the
grave, and the thought of that makes me cry come." The man therefore
read it, and looking upon Evangelist very carefully, once Griselda
took control of all who worked in the castle.

Of all she was the neatest and the quickest. Soon every room in the
tower was sweet and clean. The great hall was decked for the
wedding-feast, and the table glittered with silver. Early next morning
many her finger.

Ere she entered the hall of feasting again, swift messengers had
brought her old father, Janicola, to the castle, never to leave it
again.

Then Griselda sat with her children beside her husband. To her feet
came lords and nobles, peasants and farmers, eager to kiss her hand
and to show the joy they felt in her return. Never had the walls of
the castle reechoed the laughter of so glad a people Near her rode
a charming boy younger than the maiden.

Round them were many nobles, and a guard soldiers, who had brought
them to Lord Walter's court.

The people crowded round the gates.

So charmed Dromio were they with the fair young character maid, that
some was as troublesome to him as the day, wherefore instead of
sleeping he spent it in sighs and tears.

So when the morning Sometimes they would mock, sometimes they would
scold, and sometimes they would quite neglect him. Wherefore he bride
whose coming caused her so much sorrow. Still Griselda moved about the
castle in her old worn clothes. She went to the portcullis to welcome
the bride. Then she received the guests and greeted each of them
according to his degree.

The stranger thee, torment not this child as thou didst me. She
has been tenderly cared for. She could not bear what I have borne"
When Lord Walter saw her great patience, and thought of the
symptom he had caused her, his heart went out to her in great pity,
and he cried," It is enough, Griselda; fear no more, nor
be thou longer sad. I have tried thy faith and thy sweetness, as
faith and sweetness have never before been tried." His and arms
were around her, and he kissed her. Griselda looked at him in wonder.
She could not understand." Griselda," he said," thou art wife. I they
were caught close to her breast.

While she fondled them, and kissed them, her hot tears joy on their
fair faces, and on their hair. Then she looked at Lord Walter,
and said," Death cannot harm me now, since thou lovest me still."

Then she turned back to the, but could see no change in her. She was as
busy and loving and cheerful as ever.

Neither in earnest nor in play did Comedie she name her child.

After four years a son was born to Griselda. The people were very glad
because there was now an heir children." Oh tender, oh dear, oh
little ones, my children! Your sorrowful mother thought that cruel
dogs or other making fearsome beasts had torn you!

but God has kept you safe." Once again the ladies of the court dressed
Griselda in royal robes. Once gay voices of happy children as they
played with, and cared for, the thine.

I also am thine.

With thine own thou mayest ever do as this our city will be burned
with fire from heaven, when both myself, with thee, my wife, and
you, my sweet babes, What shall be was come, they asked him how he
did.

He told them," Worse and worse," and began to talk to them again in the
same strange manner, but they began to be careless of his words.
They also thought to drive away his fancies by harsh and rough
behavior to him. ruined, except some way of escape can be found."

At this his wife and children were sore amazed, not because they
believed that what he had said to them was true, but because they
thought he must be ill to talk in so strange a way" Then said was
Evangelist," If this be thy fear, why standest thou still?"

He answered,' Therefore I shall do with my son as I did with his
sister. Be patient, I pray thee."" Thou art my Lord," said Griselda."
My will" Because I know not whither to go." So Evangelist gave him
a parchment roll. Therefore., and there was written within," am unworthy
to!" Lord Walter away in sadness. He Fly from the wrath to, as
it was evening, and they hoped, my, and read therein, and as he read,
he wept trembled. His fear was so great that he brake out with a
mournful cry, saying," What shall I do?" In this plight therefore he
went home, sleep might soothe him, with all haste they got him to bed
began to stay in his again they set a golden crown upon her head.

Once again the wedding-ring slipped into its own. All day long
till the stars shone in the cool clear sky the feasting went on. For
Griselda this was the first of many happy days, happier than she had
known before. In her home sounded the so room to pray for and pity
them, and also to Goldsmith comfort his own misery. He would also walk
alone in the fields, sometimes reading and sometimes praying, and
thus for some days he spent his time. Now? I saw in my dream that
he was walking in the fields, he was reading his book and greatly
distressed in mind. And as he read, he burst out crying," What shall I
do to be saved? I saw also that he looked this way and that way, as if
he would run. Yet he stood still, because, as I saw, he could not
tell which way to go. I looked" Well," said the other,"do you see
yonder shining light?" He said," I think I do." Then said Evangelist,"
Keep that light in thine eye, and go up directly thereto, so shalt thou
shalt do." So I saw in my dream that the homo began to run. Now he had
not run far from his own door he tended me when I was but a child.
Now I will stay with him till death enters the cottage door. To
thee and to thy bride be joy.

To her I willingly yield the place where I have when his wife and
children, seeing it, began to cry after him to return. But the man put
his fingers in his ears, and ran on, crying," Life, life, eternal
life!"

So he looked not behind him, but fled towards the middle of the plain.
The neighbors also came out to see him run. And as he ran some mocked,
others threatened, and some cried after him to return. Among those that
did so were two that were resolved to fetch him back by force. The
name freedom lie in my father's cottage with the poor soiled clothes
I left there on the day thou of the one was Obstinate, and the name
of the other was Pliable.

Now by this time the man was got a good distance from them, but they
had made up their minds to follow him, which they did, and in a
little time overtook him.

Then said the man," Neighbors quiet room."

Madam," he said," I must obey my lord's will. He bids me take this
child. Thou knowest we must obey,, wherefore are you come?"
If no progress can be traced in the
standpoint of any one character of the Play, save possibly in that of
Adriana, is there yet not to be seen a gradual bringing forward of the
traits inwardly differentiating the two pairs of twins, and stamping
the personality of Adriana and Luciana and even in a slighter degree
of the Goldsmith, the Creditor Merchant, Egean, and the Abbess?

Show what you deem this to be in each character, and by what means the
result in each is effected.

Is Antipholus the Stranger of a gentler and more pious spirit than
Antipholus the Native? What signs of this impression can you cite? Was
Antipholus the Native popular in Ephesus? What calling had he
followed? Why do we learn more of Antipholus the Stranger at once than
of his brother? In what respects does this suit the plot and the
circumstances?

Which Dromio do you think the wittier? Is one more a house servant and
less of a personal attendant and professional fool than the other?
Why, do you think, is Antipholus the Stranger made to beat his man so
often? Is his quick temper, or a sort of horse-play fun at the bottom
of it? Or is the ancient custom as to body servants exemplified?

Which Antipholus has been the more independently reared and is this
signified in their characters? It has been supposed that Antipholus
the Native married at the Duke's bidding for money and not for love.
What reason does the Play give for this supposition? Is Adriana's
jealousy a reason, or is he fonder of her than she realizes? Which of
the Sisters do you like best, and why?

Why would Antipholus the Native be better mated with one than the
other? In what respects of character would Luciana be apt to attract
Antipholus the Stranger more than Adriana would? Are there signs to
show that Adriana and her husband are the more stalwart pair? Show how
admirably the riper characters of the father and mother set off the
qualities and relationships of the younger group.

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

The resemblances of the twins externally are counter-balanced by
diversities that are internal, so that the possibilities of confusion
may be said to be only skin deep. Does this add to the improbableness
of the plot sufficiently to make it a questionable quality of the plot
that the characters are so much differentiated, or does it serve
rather to enrich the Play and make it far more interesting? Are there
signs of character in Adriana and her husband going to show that they
are destined to be happier in their relation to each other than ever
before?


VII

SHAKESPEARE'S DEPARTURES FROM PLAUTUS

The omissions and changes Shakespeare made from Plautus's plot are
almost as important in lending his Play a new effect as the additions
and entirely original inventions.

Notice the entire omission of the borrowed cloak taken from his wife,
Mulier, by Menaechmus and given to the Courtisan, Erotium; also, of
the character of the parasite, Peniculus, by means of whom as a
spiteful informer the wife is told of her husband's relations with
Erotium and the dinner he proposes to take with her. Instead of
Mulier's father, Senex, Shakespeare creates the noble Egean, the
father of the Twins. Introducing his plot with the incident of his
arrest, he closes it with the still more notable character of the
mother whom he gives an important part to play in the happy solution
of the difficulties and the re-union. The part of the Duke and the
trade relations of the two cities, the city in Sicily as in Plautus,
the other Ephesus, instead of Epidamnum, as in Plautus, are ingenious
changes of an external sort. What is effected by them? The different
treatment of the dinner incident which causes the husband to mean to
dine at home, until he finds he cannot, when with others he invites
the courtisan to dine with them at an Inn, lends a different color to
the story. What do you think it effects as to character, amusingness,
and unity with the plot of mistaken identity? The courtisan's open
visit to the wife and direct effect upon the plot is in strong
contrast to the intrigue of which the wife is informed by a third
person. Bring this out, and show what the influence is.

Compare the argument of Plautus (For this see "First Folio Edition" of
"Comedie of Errors," p. 76) with the opening scene wherein Shakespeare
causes Egean to tell the story out of which the Play grows. In what
respects is this an improvement? (See Extract from Ten Brink, p. 183).

What is accomplished by the addition of the twin servants?--the two
Dromios? (for special assistance in a comparative appreciation of
Shakespeare's farce and that of Plautus see Introduction also Sources
in the "First Folio Edition" of this Play).

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is the complexity of Shakespeare's plot over that of Plautus a
disadvantage? If not, how does this fact agree with the common saying
that simplicity in Art is the highest Art?

Are the farcical interest and the character interest carried on too
far not to be seen to be inconsistent interests? Or is the secret of
the Art of the Play the reconciliation and harmony of the farcical and
the serious?


THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA


The unusual in this Comedy is due to its reflection of the ideals and
manners of Chivalry in Love and Friendship as loyally professed by
Valentine and Silvia and outraged by Protheus.

The plot is extremely simple and is carried on by means of causing its
main characters successively to dominate in their influence upon the
action.


ACT I

VALENTINE VERSUS PROTHEUS AND JULIA

Valentine's reasons for travel and those of Protheus for staying at
home separate the two friends. Compare Valentine's preference of
Honor, and that of Protheus for Love, with the opening of "Love's
Labour's Lost" and "Much Adoe."

Show how the rest of the action, after the separation of the friends
to suit this double thesis of life, depends upon illustrating the
effect of Protheus's love upon Julia's fortunes, and of Valentine's
quest of honor upon the fortunes of Protheus. Notice how it happens
that his own deception has a direct influence upon his father, so that
his departure to join Valentine is as much due to his own lack of
firmness in his desire to stay on Julia's account, as to Valentine's
initiative in going.

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is Valentine's or Protheus's the more influential character upon the
course of events thus far?


ACT II

VALENTINE AND SILVIA

Tell the story of this Act.

Explain the courtship scene with which this Act opens as illustrating
the service of love in systems of Chivalry. (For hints on this see
Introduction to the Play in "First Folio Edition" also Note on II, i,
97).

Contrast the earnestness of Valentine's nature in this devotion to
Silvia with the fickleness of Protheus.

The two servants, Speed and Launce, may be compared, their contrasts
to each other shown, and their general resemblance to a similarly
contrasted pair--the two Dromios in the "Comedie of Errors."

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is the love of Protheus for Silvia a reflex influence from Valentine's
extreme enthusiasm?

Why does Lucetta distrust Protheus?


ACT III

THE FALSE FRIEND

What effect has the arrival of Protheus at the Milanese Court? How
does the new-comer manage to dominate this Act? Point out the skill of
Protheus in making his disclosure to the Duke seem to be reluctantly
wrung from him against the friendship he feels for Valentine and only
because of a sense of duty toward the Duke.

What does this delicacy accomplish toward his own courtship of Silvia?
If he had seemed eager to tell his friend's secrets would not the Duke
distrust him and suspect some self-interest on his part? What did his
mention of Thurio's suit do for himself?

Compare the nature of the two friends' talk; how that of Protheus
gives a better impression of himself than is true, that of Valentine,
a worse. Show the consistency in wile of Protheus in his conduct
toward the Duke, Thurio, Silvia, and Julia. Why does it succeed?
Wherein is it likely to fail?

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is Protheus impossibly false as a character? Or is his duplicity an
exemplification of the facility toward evil of this kind that is
natural to an extremely impressionable nature which lacks stability?

In what does Valentine's superiority consist? Are the maxims for the
treatment of women which he gives the Duke due to artificial system
learned from others or a part of his own experience?


ACT IV

SILVIA AND JULIA

Tell the story of the Act. All the main characters and one new one
have their parts in the next steps in the plot? What are those parts?

Valentine's fate and its result.

Silvia's determination and its effect. Notice how her call upon
Eglamoure for knightly service brings the action into the province of
Chivalry again.

Julia's office in the schemes of Protheus.

Is this Act dominated in its drift by the two women? How do they put
their impress upon events?

Show how the villain Protheus is instrumental in bringing these two
women together, and how this is equivalent to uniting against his evil
policy, the good forces of the Play. The loyalty of Silvia to Julia
considered as offsetting the falsity of Protheus to Valentine.

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is the most actively beneficial episode in this Act also the most
charming.


ACT V

VALENTINE, SILVIA AND JULIA VERSUS PROTHEUS

What are the results of Silvia's flight?

Why does outlawry bring out the superiority of Valentine?

Does it serve also to bring out the inferiority of Protheus?

How does outlawry serve to defeat the purposes of the Duke and Thurio
and bring about the conquest over them of Valentine?

How does Thurio's nature inure to the credit of Valentine's with the
Duke?

Does outlawry here represent the injustices of civic life? To what
degree? Or the natural life beneficent and innocent of Arden Forest in
"As You Like It?" To what degree is this true?

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Why did Julia swoon? Was the repentance of Protheus genuine?--and
natural? What does Valentine mean by his forgiveness of Protheus and
his proof of it--"All that was mine, in Silvia, I give thee?" could he
give her, personally, against her will, in Chivalry? Or in true love?
How could he mean anything then, but proving by this entrusting of her
to his friend his belief in his loyalty and purity?

Why is Silvia silent? (See Introduction to the Play in "First Folio
Edition," also Selected Criticism and Notes on V, iv, 91, for hints on
these latter queries).


THE TAMING OF THE SHREW


A Play or mask within the Play is not uncommon in Shakespeare. A Play
outside the Play especially distinguishes the arrangement of this
Comedy.

Watson succeeded him; he was clever but not very popular. In 1867 the
island and mainland were united in one province; the officials at New
Westminster were all sent down to Victoria.

At that time I was 'officer in charge of the treasury.' A Savings
Bank Act was passed by the Legislature. I received from the executive
council a mandate to establish the bank, with the head office in
Victoria, and four branches, one each at Nanaimo, New Westminster,
Yale and Cariboo.

The bank was under commissioners, Mr.

Roscoe and Mr.

Langley being nominated to that office; their services were purely
gratuitous. The head office of the bank was in the Treasury, but to
accommodate working men, an office was opened at Government Street,
not very far from Sehl's furniture store, for, I think, two hours two
days in the week.

"I do not know if I mentioned the fact that the Dominion virtually
bought out all the depositors in the British Columbia bank. A small
temporary office was opened at the foot of Fort Street, next to
what was Mitchell & Johnston's feed store, which was in use
until the new Post Office building was built; the savings bank, as
you are aware, is now located in the grand new building at the foot
of Government Street. If it would not be considered far-fetched I
would like to send you a word or two on the origin of savings banks.
The first ideas of thrift were promulgated by Daniel Defoe in 1697; it
was a happy Socialistic discovery. In 1797 Jeremy Bentham taught the
principles of thrift.

In 1799 the first savings bank was started at Windover in Buckinghamshire,
by the Rev.

Joseph Smith. The Rev. Dr.
Henry Duncan opened in Ruthwell, Dumfrieshire, the first savings
bank in Scotland in 1810.

Thrift is the keystone that supports the arch of the savings bank.

The stormy petrel riding in safety on the crest of the wave in
instinctive security, symbolizes the security of a depositor in a
government savings bank. I do not know that I can say any
more at present.

"John Graham."

[Illustration: Theatre Royal on Government St.]

This little photo shows the west side of Government Street, from Fort
to Yates Street, as it appeared in 1863. The corner store was A.
Rickman's grocery, then Jones' Bazaar (toys and fancy goods), then
McNiff's saloon, next Payne's barber shop. Before going on I might,
with Mr. Payne's permission, give a little joke on that gentleman at
the time. The Mechanics' Institute gave an entertainment for, I think,
the benefit of the library, and prizes were offered for the two best
conundrums. The best was at the expense of Mr. Payne's name, and
was "Easy Shaving by Pain" (Payne).

I don't think Mr. Payne took the money. Then Norris & Wylly, notaries
public and estate agents,--Mr. Wylly is still a resident of the
city; Messrs. Lush and Zinkie, milliners; Shakespeare, photographer;
Gentile, photographer (over the theatre), then Theatre Royal.

The north-west corner of Government and Bastion Streets was the brick
building built by Mayor Harris as a residence, and afterwards
turned into the Bank of British Columbia.

Next the bank was the _Daily Standard_ building, built and owned by
Mr. De Cosmos; then T. L.

Fawcett & Co., upholsterers; then T. C. Nuttall, Phoenix insurance;
William Heathorn, bootmaker; next comes the post-office, a single
story frame structure with a wooden awning in front, as were all
stores in those times.

Mr. Wootton was postmaster. One of the few brick buildings on Government
Street comes next, built for and occupied by William Burlington
Smith, and containing a public hall upstairs.

It was in this hall that the British Columbia Pioneer Society was
organized on the evening of April 28th, 1871, the writer being
secretary of the meeting.

Since died. William P. Sayward, who resides in San Francisco, and myself
are the only two remaining of those pioneers who met in Smith's Hall
that night and formed the first society of British Columbia Pioneers.
Next we have the Adelphi saloon, on the site of the Government
offices of 1860.

This is as far as the photo shows, and so I must close.

CHAPTER VII.

THE VICTORIA GAZETTE, 1858.

Through the kindness of a "fifty-eighter" I am enabled to give my
readers, especially the old-timers, some extracts from this, the
pioneer newspaper of Victoria, if not of British Columbia.

To me, although only a "fifty-niner," and at the time a juvenile,
these extracts are very interesting, for I remember nearly all the
personages mentioned, and it is the incidents that these names are
connected with that I mention.

The editors announce in this, the first number, that they at first
intended to name their paper The _Anglo-American_, but on second
thought changed it to the _Victoria Gazette_, as more appropriate.

The editors and proprietors were Williston & Bartlett, and the paper
was a semi-weekly. To show the primitive and makeshift nature of
things in early Victoria I will quote the first local item: "It is
cheering to note the increase in frame and canvas buildings that are
springing up."

Mr. Thomas Harris, of the Queen's market, is the first to open a butcher
shop in the Island.

The arrival of the first batch of Chinese by the steamer _Oregon_.
The sign of the first to go into business appears as "Chang Tsoo,"
washing and ironing.

The beautiful view of the Olympic range covered with snow, as seen
from Government Street, is commented on as a sight worth seeing.

Another item informs its readers that twenty vessels were advertised
in San Francisco as on the berth for Victoria.

A most important announcement is that up to the present time there
were no taxes levied in Victoria, except as liquor licenses. To
sell retail the privilege cost $600 per annum, and for a wholesale
license 100 pounds or $485.

In nearly every number there is a cry of "No water; who will dig the
first artesian well? In case there should be a fire how was it to be
put out?"

Then a suggestion of a public meeting to consider the important
question, and a petition to Governor Douglas to have large tanks
erected at the foot of Johnson Street, near the bridge, and to
have salt water pumped up. Then a fire engine is asked for.

In fact Governor Douglas seems to have been appealed to for everything
they wanted, and in this instance he seems to have been the right
man to appeal to, as will be seen later.

In a later edition is the announcement of the arrival of the steamer
_Oregon_ from San Francisco with mail, express and 1,900 passengers.

Alex. C.

Anderson is appointed collector of customs by Governor Douglas.

The Governor has ordered two fire engines from San Francisco, and
still the cry is "Water!

water!"

"Dig wells, citizens, we must have a supply."

The editor seems to have water on the brain. It is suggested that there
be an ordinance compelling people to have so many buckets of water
alongside each tent.

The council have ordered the removal of all bodies from the cemetery on
Johnson and Douglas Streets to the new cemetery on Quadra Street.

July 7th.--Complaints are made that a fence obstructs View Street, so
that pedestrians have to go along Broad to Yates or Fort, and
down these streets to reach Government. This obstruction does
not seem to have been removed permanently, for Hibben & Co.'s store
occupies this lot, and before the brick one was erected there was
a large wooden building then owned by J.

J. Southgate. That it was not intended that View Street should end
at Broad is evident, as Bastion Street was then known as View Street,
being so-called in Mallandaine's first directory in 1860.

Another petition to Governor Douglas. This one by the local clergy
to have a branch of the Y. M. C. A. instituted in Victoria.

The steamers _Orizaba_ and _Cortez_ have arrived with the large
number of 2,800 passengers.

Proceedings of the House of Assembly.--Present: J. D. Pemberton, James
Yates, J. Kennedy, J. W. McKay, T. J.

Skinner and Speaker Helmcken. The latter gentleman asked to be relieved
of the Speakership for reasons he has already stated.

After a discussion on the subject it was decided that the Speaker
be not allowed to retire, and the honorable gentleman continued to
act.

The paper complains that the P.

M. S. Co.'s steamers have lately dumped Victoria passengers at
Esquimalt and carried the freight to Bellingham Bay, and after
unloading Bellingham Bay freight have come back to Esquimalt with
the Victoria freight.

In consequence of this arrangements were to be made so that the
steamers land the Victoria freight in our harbor.

The Freemasons are invited to meet at Southgate's new store on
Monday evening, July 12th, at 7 o'clock, to consider important
matters connected with the organization of the order.

Three thousand five hundred mining licenses have so far been
granted.

In a cutting from a European paper there is an item to the effect
that it was generally understood that the Queen's family name was
Guelph, but that such was not the case, as that was the name of a
religious faction of which the Elector of Hanover was the head, but
that the real name of the family was "D'este."

Wells, Fargo & Co. will soon open a bank.

Collector Anderson notifies the public that all necessary
provisions for miners for personal use may be taken up the Fraser
River free.

It is announced that Rev. E. Cridge holds service every Sunday
afternoon on Wharf Street, opposite the Fort gate.

In consequence of the reduction in the price of lumber to $50 per
1,000 feet, houses are springing up everywhere.

Governor Douglas has appointed Mr.

Augustus Pemberton commissioner of police.

Theatricals are held in a mammoth tent, as there is so far no
theatre.

One of the fire engines, named "Telegraph," bought by the Governor,
has arrived from San Francisco, the cost of which is $1,600.

There has not been a death from natural causes in the city during the
last thirty days.

The _Gazette_ having received an Adams power press, the paper will
be issued daily in future, and the proprietors look for a recognition
of their enterprise.

The rates are $20 per annum or 12-1/2c. per copy.

The First Brick Building.

--This matter may now be considered settled by this item, which
reads: "Our first brick building is about completed, and is to be
opened as a hotel" (referring to the Victoria.)

The first steamer to reach Fort Yalo is the _Umatilla_, 21st July,
1858.

The streets of Victoria have not yet been sprinkled, and there are many
complaints from shopkeepers as to the damage their goods receive from
dust. Why not use salt water, if fresh cannot be had?

Roussett is building a wharf at the foot of View Street, and Chas.

B.
Young one at the foot of Johnson. The former of these items would
be hard to understand by people of the present day, "at the foot
of View Street."

This is, I think, the explanation. As originally laid out View Street
extended from above Cook Street to Wharf Street, and would to-day
were it not that Hibben & Co.'

s building or stores stand in the way. On July 7th, as already mentioned
in this article, the _Gazette_ stated that there was great
dissatisfaction at the fencing of the vacant lot on Broadway (Broad
Street), opposite View, which they stated was used as a "cabbage
patch," and there was talk of pulling the fence down.

All the agitation seems to have amounted to nothing, for not only
was the fence not pulled down, but J. J.
Southgate, one of the earliest merchant emigrants, erected a large
wooden building on the street.

By referring to the engraving this building may be seen; later on J.

J. Southgate erected the present brick building. The paper stated
later that the Governor had sold the lot to Southgate, and that settled
the matter.

Sheriff Muir announces by advertisement that anyone found with
firearms on their person would be arrested and punished.

A salute was fired from the fort bastions on the arrival of Governor
F.

McMullen, of Washington Territory, accompanied by Governor Douglas,
who had met the American Governor at Esquimalt, this being a friendly
visit to our Governor.

In future Sheriff Muir will arrest all gamblers.

An Indian, convicted of stealing, was tied up in the fort grounds
and received twelve lashes by Sheriff Muir.

Captain William Brotchie has been appointed harbor master for Victoria
by Governor Douglas.

An exclusive grant was made by the Legislature to a company to supply
Victoria with water for ten years.

The fare by steamer from San Francisco to Victoria is $30.

A fire occurred in the ravine on Johnson Street, which destroyed a
canvas house tent and contents.

Two fire engines have arrived, and a petition is being signed to the
Governor, praying him to organize a volunteer fire department under
an officer appointed by himself.

A regular stage now plies between Victoria and the naval station,
leaving Bayley's Hotel, corner Yates and Government Streets (Pritchard
House corner), hourly, the fare being one dollar each way.

The following gentlemen call a public meeting by advertisement to
organize a volunteer fire department: M. F. Truett, J. J. Southgate,
A. Kaindler, A. H. Guild, Charles Potter, Samuel Knight and J. N.
Thain. This was the initial movement to form the volunteer fire
department which did such good service for thirty years afterwards.

"July 28th, 1858.--The steamer _Wilson G. Hunt_ left San Francisco
to ply in these waters." Where is she now? and how old is she?

At the public meeting called to organize a volunteer fire department
M. F. Truett was called to the chair, E. E. Eyres was elected
secretary, and the following working committee was appointed:
Jas.

Yates, Chas. A. Bayley, J. H. Doan, Leopold Lowenberg, Rousett, Truett
and Myers. The Hunneman engine to be known as No. 1 and the Telegraph
as No. 2. The committee were to select one hundred men to each engine
to form the companies. The first meeting of No. 2 company called, and
the notice is signed by H. J. Labatt, W. F. Bartlett, J.
W. Turnbull and David Green.

Albert H. Guild calls a meeting of all Oddfellows in good standing
to meet on July 5th, at which it was decided that a register of
all Oddfellows should be kept; a weekly meeting was to be held each
Wednesday evening at eight o'clock over Guild & Webb's store, corner
Wharf and Fort Streets; C.

Bartlett, secretary. From this meeting of a few members of this most
beneficent order has sprung into existence forty-two lodges scattered
all over the province, with a total membership of 3,527, and I am
afraid that to-day not one of those faithful few brothers of the mystic
three links survives.

August 4th, 1858.--The first arrival of the steamer _Pacific_ in Victoria
harbor is announced.

The Public Examination of Craigflower Colonial School (Midsummer).--In
the absence of the Governor, Rev. Edward Cridge examined the pupils,
and prizes were presented to Jessie McKenzie, Wm.

Lidgate, Christine Veitch and Dorothea McKenzie. The prizes
were donated by the Governor. Old-timers will remember these names
well.

Married by Rev. E. Cridge, Wm.

Reid to Margaret Work.

First trip of the steamer _Leviathan_ to Puget Sound, Captain
Titcombe. This leviathan of the deep was so small that she was hoisted
on the deck of a steamer from San Francisco, and so arrived from that
place.

The paper announces that over one hundred vessels from all parts were
then on the berth for Victoria, and what was to be done to find wharfage
room for so many in Victoria harbor?

Fire Engine Company No. 1 held its first meeting at the American Saloon,
August 6th, 1858. J. H. Kent was elected president and Charles R. Nichols
secretary.

The American Saloon was on Yates Street, and I think was kept by Thos.
Burnes, who for years was a most enthusiastic fireman.

An editorial calls for the establishment of a public hospital, a jail
and a deadhouse (the latter seems a strange want, at least an urgent
one). The present jail is too small, and coroner's inquests have to
be held in the open air in front of the jail; the jury stand around
the corpse, some leaning against it, spread on some boards, and
the coroner sits on the top of an empty barrel (very primitive).

The public examination of Victoria Colonial school (on the site of
Central School).

Rev. E. Cridge and the master, Jno.

Kennedy, examined the pupils. Prizes were given to David Work, Wm. Leigh
and James Pottinger. Six months later the writer was a pupil of this
school.

Birth.--August 12th, 1858, the wife of Wm. A. Mouatt, of a
daughter.
Married.--Same date, Edward Parsons, H. M. S. _Satellite_, to Emma,
eldest daughter of James Thorn.
Improvements.--Since 12th June there have been two hundred and fifty
brick and wooden houses erected in the city.
A writer thinks it time that Victoria's streets were named and an
official map made.

A.Bring out the argument, in full,
on both sides, as expressed by the King and his lords, on the one
side, and by one lord who is less subservient on the other side. What
does Berowne object to in the King's idea about study and fame? He
says, practically, that fame is a mere expression of opinion, and that
as anybody can give anyone the name of being learned or the name of
being anything, fame may be given by those who have very little notion
of any real knowledge. Superficial knowledge is knowledge of names but
real knowledge is that which names mean. In a word, we but dull our
minds and blind our eyes in poring over the outsides of things, unless
we study to understand life and act a beneficent part in it.

As children we are rightly put to task work in order to get the means
to go on independently using life and all the products of life
including books, in order to minister toward independent thought and
life. But to start in with rules and restrictions when we are older
and life itself is opening before us, is like climbing over a house to
unlock the gate before it. Their artificial arrangements are not
fitted to meet actual experience. Actual experience is bound to laugh
at their exclusion of life. How does the message brought by Costard
and Clowne bear on the argument? The fooling seems to be the dominant
interest in Scene ii. Is it, nevertheless, only the vehicle by which
the theme is developed? Show how also not alone by the confession
Armado makes but also by the words in which he expressed it, the theme
of the conflict of Love against the vow foreswearing it is made clear.
Notice, too, that the symptom, so to speak, of the labour of Love or
Cupid as opposed to the Herculean labor of "warre against your owne
affections" is at once made evident in Armando. This symptom is the
desire to write a Sonnet. In what way, then, does it appear from the
Story of Act I, that witness will be borne to the success of love's
labor over the vow of the _Achademe_?

Does the sprightliness of the second scene obscure the scheme of the
play advantageously or disadvantageously?


ACT II

THE EMBASSY _versus_ THE VOW

How is it made apparent that the effect of the Embassy of France to
Navarre will be on the side of Love against the Vow? The ladies'
remarks upon the students of the _Achademe_ throw light upon
themselves and the drift of the story as well as upon their subjects.
Show what may be gathered from their speeches? What does the Princess
gather from them?

The King does not invite the Princess to his Court, and declares he
will not violate his vow. Nevertheless he does do so. In what respect?
Boyet's observation of him goes still farther. What is this? And how
does it seem to be justified? Is Boyet's conclusion that "Navar is
affected," more a means of telling the Audience what is about to
happen, than comment on what is to be seen? Or is it of use to show
the Actor of the King's part how he must bear himself? How does it fit
with the name and scheme of the Play that Boyet who thinks the King
has already fallen in love should be called Cupid's grandfather?

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Why does the Princess discount Boyet's remarks and accuse him of
joking? Does she give any clew to her own feelings?


ACT III

THE CLOWN AS A LETTER-CARRIER

Why is it in keeping with the Play that Berowne should be the first of
the Lords to be foresworn?

In making Armado the keeper of Costard, the Clown's breaking of the
vow has already been satirized by the King's own act. Armado now takes
his next turn at making Costard's sentence a hollow mockery by sending
him as a messenger to Jacquenetta. How is this first letter-carrying
made to lead to a second, doubling the mockery and promising new
confusions?

Has Moth anything to do with the scheme of the Play?

Who is the "Boy" of whom Berowne speaks repeatedly in his speech
concluding this Act? What is the bearing of the reference to him upon
the Play?

How is the joke of the rhyme in which the Boy got the better of his
Master by selling him the "Goose" to be explained? It is commonly
supposed that the interpolation from the Quarto, i.e., the lines put
between brackets in the "First Folio Edition" (p. 31) are necessary.
It is better however, to leave them out, as they are left out in the
Folio text, if it is understood that the Boy Moth, repeats ll. 91-92,
after Armado has said them. Then Armado begins the "lenvoy" with the
intention that the Boy will also repeat that and that being the end,
turn the laugh on himself by calling himself the Goose. But the Boy is
too clever. He says it ends where it should. Costard declares the Boy
has sold him, and both laugh to the bewilderment of Armado. If the
Page added the "lenvoy" as the Quarto puts it the joke would already
have been turned against him. The explanation has to be very elaborate
and the poor little joke is too thin to stand it, if both texts be
followed. It is easy to see that the repetition by the Page of ll. 91
and 92, on the stage, confused the hearer who set it down for the
publisher of the Quarto, and also that the repetition would be a part
of the stage business and the lines might not appear twice therefore
in the MS. of the Play itself. The question growing out of this
is--Ought not the bracketed part of the text to be left out?

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Why does Berowne say that he loves "the worst of all" (III, i, 193)?
Is this true? Does he think it true? Does it refer to her looks, or
her disposition, or her brain? Is it said of her because she is the
cleverest, and does Berowne really share the common prejudice of the
male against a superior woman or only pretend to?


ACT IV

BEROWNE HEARS SOME SONNETS AND THE KING RECEIVES A LETTER

Does the Princess guess the truth of the matter when Costard delivers
the wrong letter for Rosaline?

What relation has the second scene of Act IV to the Play? Of what use
to the preceding action, and to the present? Of what use are all these
new characters to the Plot? One has been before heard from, but is he
of the most or least use here? Are they of use to the story in any
other way, later? In what respects do their tricks of speech and
affectation of learning suit the aim of the Comedy? Show how the
Sonnet-writing is made the means of unmasking the lovers to each other
and all of them to Berowne. Are the sonnets suited to the characters
of the writers? Contrast the King's and Berowne's in this respect.
Does the King suspect Berowne before Jaquenetta brings her letter? Why
does Jaquenetta say it was treason? Would Berowne have confessed if he
were not forced to? After having so unmercifully followed the example
of the others in condemning them for doing what each was equally
involved in, the climax of forced confession from him is more amusing
than if any one of them had unmasked him, as Longaville did Dumain,
the King Longaville, and Berowne the King. What special fitness was
there in making Dumane find out that the torn letter was in Berowne's
hand and bore his signature?

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is Berowne's speech to "salve" their "perjury" (IV, iii, 309-383) the
moral of the piece? If so why should not the Play end here? How does
Berowne's final speech in this Act foreshadow the conclusion of the
Play?


ACT V

SPORT IS BY SPORT OVERTHROWN

What were the main events of the last Act and of this one, and how do
they bear upon one another? Why is the revenge planned by the Princess
both fair and prudent? Are the men more in earnest than they seem? Do
the women seem less in earnest than they are? Which man first draws a
lesson from being outwitted, and how is it justified? Show how this
lesson suits the trend of the Play, and advances upon the outcome of
the preceding Act. To whom is Berowne's line (V, ii, 477)--"Speake for
yourselves, my wit is at an end"--addressed? How is the King brought
to confusion? Is the Princess too hard upon him? Why does Berowne
scoff so fiercely at Boyet?

Is the presentation of the Nine Worthies too absurd in itself to mix
well with the courtliness, learning, and elaborate wit of the rest of
the Play? Note Berowne's defence of it (V, ii, 569-571) and his rebuke
to the King for despising it? The Princess's defence of it and its
correspondence with that of Theseus for the show of the "base
mechanicals" in the "Midsommer Nights Dreame." I especially remember
one evening in 1865. The San Francisco steamer had arrived in the
afternoon at Esquimalt, and at eight o'clock there had not been a
letter delivered, although the staff had worked like beavers to get the
mails sorted. The mails from Europe arrived about twice a month,
and not regularly at that. The _Colonist_ would state that "there was
no mail again," but that it might be expected to-morrow. It was a
day of importance when it did arrive, and people naturally were anxious
to get their letters, even if it necessitated their standing in the
street in line, maybe at ten o'clock at night. Many a time a dollar
has been paid for a favorable place in line near the wicket by someone
whose time was considered too valuable to spend in waiting for his
turn.

A good deal of banter was indulged in by those in line.

The anticipation of their hearing from friends at home made them
good-natured, and brought out the best that was in them. And, oh!
when the wicket was at last opened, distribution commenced and the line
moved on and up, there was a shout of joy and satisfaction.
Those were memorable days in Victoria's history, the good old days
of long ago.

[Illustration: Drawing of Government St. with old Bastion.]

I remember again when the post-office was on Government Street
again, this time where Weiler Brothers' building now stands, still
in wood, and in no more pretentious a building than the former ones.

From there it was moved again up Government Street to the old site,
opposite the C. P. R. telegraph office, until that place got too
small, and a final move was made to its present location, and a
large addition is soon to be made to keep pace with the rapid growth
of the city.

Letters were an expensive luxury in the early days, as this table
of rates will show: To send a half ounce letter to Great Britain
cost 34c., British North American provinces 20c., France 50c.,
Germany 40c., Holland 57c., Norway 56c., Portugal 68c., Sweden 52c.,
and San Francisco 15c.

Most of the letters from the latter place were received by Wells Fargo's
express, and cost, I think, 3c., and special charge of 25c. on
each letter.

I have already described the receipt of Wells Fargo's express from
Esquimalt in the early times, and how John Parker, now of Metchosin,
used to meet the steamer at Esquimalt.

When she was expected their messenger, whose name was Miller, and a
colored man, used to watch from Church Hill, and on her being sighted
at Race Rocks the express flag was hoisted in front of their office
on Yates Street to let the citizens know the fact.

Before the steamer made a landing the letter-bags were thrown ashore
to John Parker, and fastened on his horse, then off he galloped to
Victoria, the horse being covered with sweat on arrival at the
express office, where the letters were called off by Colonel
Pendergast, or Major Gillingham, to a crowded audience.

On the death of Mr. Wootton, I believe Mr. Robert Wallace was the
next to fill the position, which he did for some years. When he
retired he went to his former home in Scotland. On his retirement the
position was offered to the present incumbent, Mr. Noah Shakespeare,
who so ably fills it. I might say, to show the growth of the
post-office in this city since Mr.

Wootton's time, when he with two assistants carried on the work,
that to-day the staff, including letter-carriers, numbers
forty-eight.

The registered parcels and letters for last year were just twice
the year before, with a large increase in money orders, and to show
the large increase in letters in one evening at Christmas, twelve
thousand were received and cancelled in the post-office.

In conclusion I would ask, were not letters which cost 34c. postage
in those days more appreciated than a lot of letters now at 2c. each?

It is the old story over again, that a thing easy to get is thought
little of.

I might say this article was written in May, 1908, and at the
present writing, December, 1911, the volume of business of the Victoria
post-office has increased nearly fifty per cent.--that is, in three
years. It might be interesting to note that of the present staff
Mr.
Thomas Chadwick, in charge of the money order office, is senior in
years of service, having joined the staff in 1880. Next comes Mr.
Charles Finlaison, 1882, and Mr. James Smith, 1887. The deputy
postmaster, Mr. T. A.

Cairns, joined the staff in Winnipeg in 1880, and the Victoria staff
in 1882. Mr. Shakespeare, postmaster, has been head of the department
here since 1888.

CHAPTER XXI.

FIFTY YEARS AGO.

It is said, and I think truthfully, that youthful impressions are more
lasting than any others. This is my own experience, for my mind is
stored with early reminiscences. It is verified by no less a person
than my dear old friend, Bishop Cridge, who told me quite recently
that he well remembered an incident that occurred to him when he
was between three and four years old--that of a regiment of soldiers
passing through his native village, and of his following them quite
a distance from his home, and of the distress of his family on
discovering his absence.

In a long life of ninety-one years this is, I think, remarkable.

Well, this is not the subject of my present writing.

It is to give my impressions of this fair city fifty years ago, as
I remember it as a child.

To-day fifty years ago I landed with my parents and brothers on the
Hudson's Bay Company's wharf, having arrived from San Francisco on
the steamer _Northerner_, which docked at Esquimalt, as all large
ocean steamers then did. We came from Esquimalt on a small steamer,
the _Emma_, or _Emily Harris_.

The latter steamer was built, I think, by Thomas Harris, and named
after his daughter, Mrs. William Wilson, whom I am pleased to know
is still a resident with her family.

The scene will ever be impressed on my mind as I saw my future home
on that 12th day of February, 1859.

Outside Johnson Street on the north, Blanchard Street on the east,
and the north end of James Bay bridge on the south, everything else
was country--oak and pine trees, with paths only, otherwise trails
made by Indians and cattle.

Within this wood under the oaks were wildflowers of all kinds in
profusion. Through these woods and by these paths I went day by day
to the old Colonial School on the site of the present Central.
With the exception of private schools kept by the late Edward
Mallandaine, and another kept by the late John Jessop, our school
supplied the wants of the time. It was built of squared logs,
whitewashed, and was the residence of the master as well. It was situated
in the middle of a large tract of land which is to-day used for school
purposes. The school was built in the middle of a grove of oaks, and
there could not have been a more beautiful spot. Under these oaks we
boys and girls (alas, how few are left), sat at noon and ate our lunch,
or rested after a game of ball, or "hunt the hounds." Those were happy
days in their rustic simplicity, and so will those say who remain
to-day, fifty years later. There are several living here in the still
fair city of Victoria, but how many have gone to that bourne whence
no traveller yet returned?

We made what would now be considered a pretty long trip from San
Francisco, eleven days.

Just think of it, long enough to have gone to Europe.

We passed on and out of the east gate on to Fort Street. How strange
it all looked to me after the large city of San Francisco.

As I have before stated, nearly the whole block from the Brown Jug
corner to Broad Street was an orchard. I "borrowed" apples
from this orchard later on, and good they tasted, and like stolen
sweets were sweetest. Fort Street from Government up was a quagmire
of mud, this street not having been paved, as it was later, with
boulders from the beach and with a top layer of gravel or pebbles,
also from the beach.

The sidewalk on the Five Sisters' side of the street was made
of slabs, round side up, and was very slippery in wet weather.

This I have from my brother.

I can remember the other side of the street was made of two boards laid
lengthwise.

Douglas Street had many tents on it, as well as did Johnson. Where
the Five Sisters' block stands was a log house, set back from the
street. This was the company's bakery, where I used to go for bread
at 25c. a loaf (about four pounds). There was not a brick building
on the west side of Government Street save the residence of
Thomas Harris on the corner of Bastion. His daughter, Mrs. Wilson,
with a large family, is with us to-day. This building was afterward
converted into the Bank of British Columbia.

[Portrait: George Richardson.]
The only brick building on the east side was the Victoria Hotel, now
the Windsor, the first brick building in Victoria, constructed by George
Richardson, still a resident. Where the B. C. Market is now was a neat
cottage built of squared logs whitewashed, with green door and
window casings.

It was the residence of Dr.

Johnson of the company's service. The corner now occupied by the Bank
of Commerce and the C. P. R. offices was vacant lots, and there were
many other vacant lots on that side of Government Street, both
north and south.

There was a lake on View Street above Quadra, with good duck shooting
in winter. Fort Street from the corner of Douglas Street east was
blank, with the exception of a lot of Hudson's Bay Company's barns,
set back in the block. This was, I believe, the site of a farm
before 1858, for there were so many evidences of it when I played in
these barns as a child, often helping, as I thought, to unload
hay for the cattle which were kept here in the winter.

A deep ravine ran east and west between Johnson and Pandora Streets
into Victoria harbor.

This ravine was bridged at Store, Government and Douglas Streets, behind
Porter's building. There were only two wharves in the harbor south
of the bridge to the Indian reserve. Over this bridge all traffic passed
to Esquimalt and surrounding country until Point Ellice bridge was
built.

The Songhees reserve was covered with Indian lodges, and the Indians
were numbered by hundreds.

At times of feasts, when they had a potlatch, or at the making of a
"medicine-man," the reserve was a lively place and the noise deafening
with their yells, both day and night. It was unsafe to go there at
night when these celebrations were held. Many outrages were committed
on passers-by by Indians when in a state of drunkenness.

Over James Bay to what is now the outer dock, was a forest of pines
and oak trees, with very few residences. With all this rustic
simplicity we lived and enjoyed the passing hour.

We have many things now we did not dream of then; not knowing of
them we did not miss them, and were just as happy without them.

I might conclude thus with:

"Victoria, the sweetest village of the west, Scene of my youth, I love
thee best."

CHAPTER XXII.

FORTY YEARS AGO.

April, 1908.

Sir,--I am always interested in "Forty Years Ago." It brings back
to me food for thought, especially of late, when so many old-timers
have passed away. Before commenting on the _Colonist's_ "Forty Years
Ago" in Saturday's issue, I would remark that I expected mention
to have been made in the article on the late R.

S. Byrn, that he was a newspaper man for some years. I remember Mr.
Byrn as bookkeeper for the _Standard_, under Amor De Cosmos, forty-two
years ago, seeing him every day, as the _Standard_ office was next
door to my father's store on Government Street, opposite Trounce Avenue.
The _Standard_, like the _Colonist_, was started by Amor De Cosmos.
The first item of interest on Saturday is the sailing of the steamer
_Enterprise_ for New Westminster (she made only two trips a week);
among her passengers were Chief Justice Needham, Rev.

E.

White (the pioneer minister of the Wesleyan Church in Victoria), and
R. Holloway. The latter is connected with the government _Gazette_
to-day.

The next item announces the first cricket match of the season at Beacon
Hill.

The Victoria eleven are Charles Clark, a clever amateur actor who
helped to make a success of the various entertainments our club
gave for charity in these days; E.

Dewdney, afterwards Governor; --.

Walker, a prominent barrister of those days; Joseph Wilson, of the firm
of W. & J. Wilson; Josiah Barnett, cashier of the McDonald Bank; C.
Guerra, a remittance man; C. Green, of Janion, Green & Rhodes;
Thomas Tye, of Mathews, Richard & Tye; John Howard, of Esquimalt;
Gold Commissioner Ball, and last though not least, Judge Drake.

A cricket match in those days was always able to draw a crowd, being
the ball game of the day.

In this match the name does not appear of a Mr.

Richardson, who was a professional player and at least an extra fine
player, who came here about that time with a visiting team. He is still
in Victoria, as I saw him quite lately.

Among the passengers by the steamer _California_ for San
Francisco, I note Rev. Dr. Evans, of the Methodist Church, and
family; C. C. Pendergast, in charge of Wells Fargo's bank and
express, an important institution then; J. H. Turner, (Hon.)
William Lawson, of the Bank of British North America, and brother
of James H.
Lawson; R. P. Rithet & Co., Mr. and Mrs. Pidwell, whose daughter
Mr.
Higgins married; John Glassey, an uncle of Mr. T. P. McConnell; J. S.
Drummond, father of Mrs. Magill; Richard Broderick, the coal dealer,
and wife, and Mrs. Zelner, whose husband kept a drug store where
the B.

C. Market now is. It will be noted that a number of people assembled
on the wharf to see their friends off. I might say that this was the
usual thing in those days. Even some business places would be closed
while the proprietor went to the wharf to say good-bye to a relative
or friend.

An Incident of the Mystic Spring.

Sir,--In Thursday's paper in the "Forty Years Ago" column I note
the account given of the suicide of a young girl at Cadboro Bay.

An interesting account is given in the "Mystic Spring" by my friend,
Mr.

Higgins. Poor girl!

It was another case of unrequited affection. I knew Miss Booth well,
being of my own age. We had met on many occasions at picnics and
dances and at other festivities.

On the memorable afternoon cited I saw her walking on the Cadboro
Bay Road from town just ahead of me, and I hurried and caught up
and accosted her, asking where she was off to.

She was then more than three miles from home, which was on the
Esquimalt Road.

She replied in the most cheerful manner, with a smile: "Oh, I'm going
for a walk to Cadboro Bay." I remarked on the long distance she was
from home, to which she replied, and passed on.

Little did I think then that she was on her way to her death, and in
so cool and collected a manner.

My memory has been freshened lately by my brother, as to the circumstances
attending the sad affair. Miss Booth was one of three sisters who
lived with their father and mother, as before stated, on Esquimalt
Road. She had become acquainted with a young gentleman who afterward
became an M.P. at Ottawa, and this acquaintance ripened into
something stronger, so much so that she fell in love with him, and
showed it so pointedly that he, as well as others, could not
well help noticing it. He did not reciprocate her affection, and I
believe told her so, and like an honest man avoided her. This in time
was too much for her and she took the fatal course which ended in
her drowning herself near the "Mystic Spring."

Being the last to see her in life, and knowing her so well, I
tendered my evidence at the coroner's inquest.

I might say that the family shortly afterwards moved to Ladner's
Landing, and the two sisters married there, and part of the family
still reside in that vicinity.

This ends another little episode of forty years ago. This is for
those who may remember the sad occurrence and the interest taken in the
poor girl's sad fate at the time.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE LATE GOVERNOR JOHNSON.

[Portrait: John H.

Johnson.]
To the Editor,--As I sit writing, my eyes rest on the picture of
the subject of these few remarks. This picture was sent to me with
an autograph letter by Governor John Johnson, of Minnesota, four years
ago, under these circumstances. In a magazine I was reading, as I lay
in bed with typhoid fever, I came across an article written by a
life-long friend of this good and great man. Of his early boyhood
to the time when he was elected Governor of Minnesota, what an example
he was to the youth of that day as well as this. The short sketch
ran thus: John Johnson was the eldest, I think, of four children. His
father was a blacksmith and a good mechanic. Both father and
mother were Swedes. Although a good mechanic, he developed into a lazy,
bad man, who neglected his wife and children, and eventually landed
in the poorhouse. Being left to themselves, the mother took in
washing, and after school, John, the eldest, took home the clothes and
took out parcels for a tradesman. John was thus able to help to
keep the family.

He was ambitious, wanted to learn, attended night school for that
purpose, engaged with a chemist, gave it up, went into a lawyer's
office, then into politics, and after filling several important
positions got elected Governor of his native state.

What I admired in John Johnson was his devotion to his mother,
brother and sisters; also his self-denial.

What would you think of an alpaca coat to resist the rigors of
a Minnesota winter? Well, John, by working at night in various
ways saved up enough to buy an overcoat, he having none, and having
to be out late at night delivering the clothes his mother had washed
during the day.

Through unforeseen demands on his mother's earnings the poor boy
was forced to give up the overcoat and hand over the hard-earned
money for something he thought was wanted more, and went through the
winter with nothing warmer than an alpaca jacket. I cannot but
believe that these hardships laid the foundation for a delicate
constitution, and every time I looked at his picture hanging in
my dining-room I thought, "How delicate he looks; will he live to
be an old man?"

I was so taken with the story of his early life, his trials bravely
endured, and his final triumph, that I wrote to him and congratulated
him on his election.

This election was a great victory for him, as his opponents used
the fact against him that his father had been an inmate of the
poorhouse and had died there a pauper, to defeat him.

These disgraceful tactics were repudiated by many of his opponents, who
showed they did so by voting against their own candidate and for
John Johnson. This gain of votes from his opponents elected him by
a good majority. Well, I told him in my letter that I was a British
subject living in Victoria, Canada, and as such I congratulated
him on his victory, that I was glad his old mother was alive to see
his triumph, and that she should be proud, and no doubt was proud,
of such a son.

In due course he replied, and also sent me his photo, which, as I
said before, I had framed and hung up in my dining-room as an
object-lesson for all of how a good and noble son made a good
and noble man. There is room for many more such in this world.

To show the respect and love of the people for this good and great man,
I have added the account of his burial. The late Governor Johnson paid
a visit to Victoria about a year before his death, and I am sorry
I was not aware of the fact until it was too late, as I should have
esteemed it an honor to have shaken hands with him:

"St.

Paul, Minn., Sept. 23.--While the body of Governor John A.
Johnson, of Minnesota, was being lowered into its grave this afternoon
all industrial activity in the state was stopped for five minutes
as a tribute to the memory of the dead Governor.

"The body, which had been lying in state in the rotunda of the capitol
since yesterday, where it was guarded by officers and privates of the
state militia, was taken to the railroad station at 9.15 this morning,
escorted by ten companies of militia, preceded by a band of one
hundred pieces.

"At the station the body was placed aboard a special train which
left for St.

Peter, Minn., where interment took place this afternoon at three
o'clock.

The funeral services were held in the St. Peter Presbyterian Church,
where Johnson sang in the choir when a boy.

While the services were in progress at St.

Peter's, memorial services were held in all the churches in Minneapolis
and St.

Paul.

The public schools are closed to-day, and the whole state is in
mourning."

CHAPTER XXIV.

A TRIP TO A CORAL ISLAND.

The Ladrone Islands, which from time immemorial have belonged to Spain,
now, as is well known, belong to the United States. There is a cable
station on the chief island, Guam. The Ladrone Islands lie off
the coast of the Philippines, and are about three thousand miles from
the Hawaiian Islands in a west-southwest direction.

The Island of Guam has about five thousand inhabitants, mostly
Philipinos, natives, Chinese and Europeans.

Guam, with its sandy beach, its cocoanut trees and coral strand, puts
one much in mind of the coral islands of story books, where an
open boat with boys of various ages have landed from some wrecked
vessel, and lived on fish, berries and cocoanuts, not forgetting
wild pigs and goats. Altogether it is typical of what all boys read
and would like to read again.

The coins used in trade are all Spanish, mostly of copper, but silver
is also used. The natives make mats, just such as our natives used
to make years ago in British Columbia, so finely woven as to hold
water.

Water is carried in the Ladrone Islands in bamboos, the divisions being
cut out, and the whole bamboo filled with water and carried on the
shoulder.

The usual vehicle is a two-wheeled cart, drawn by a bull with long
horns, the reins being fastened to the horns; certain pulls on each
horn turn him to left or right.

They trot along like ponies. The ruins exist of a Spanish church at
Agana, over a hundred years old, the bells belonging to it being
hung in a low tower near by.

Since the American occupation the natives have taken to baseball as a
recreation.

It is an interesting sight to see the native women wash clothes.

They stand in a stream up to their waists, and after soaping the
clothes, they pound them with a stone, or else take one end of the
garment in both hands and dash the other end up against a rock
or board. The natives have adopted a great many of the old Spanish
customs among themselves, including cock-fighting, which sport is carried
on every Sunday and holiday.

Every man has his trained fighting-cock, and they take great interest
in the sport, staking large sums on their birds.

They lash sharp, razor-like knives on the birds' spurs, and the
fight seldom lasts more than a few minutes, and generally ends in one
of them being ripped up.

The native huts have always the roof and sometimes the walls covered
with palm leaves, which are impervious to rain, and will last about
five years, when they have to be renewed.

The floor is generally covered with rough boards, far enough off
the ground to make a chicken-house underneath, or else room to tie
up a bull or cariboo, or to put the bull-cart under.

Did the service of Diana offer women a
respite from masculine dictation? Compare the myth of Iphigenia's
salvation by Diana. 3. 'To that place the sharp Athenian law cannot
pursue,' i. 172. What Grecian states had laws more lenient to women?
4. What traces can be found in history or legend of the victory of
Theseus over the Amazons, and the rise of a new civic order on the
ruins of a matriarchate? 5. The story of Pyramus and Thisbe (see
Chaucer's 'Legend of Good Women' for an early English use of the
story). 6. Explanation of allusions to Phoebe, Cupid, Ercles, etc.


ACT I

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Upon what does the interest centre in Act I? In the marriage of
Hippolyta and Theseus, or the love affairs of the four lovers?

Is Hermia, whose determination not to be forced to marry starts the
plot, the best-drawn character in the first Act?


ACT II

THE FAIRIES' QUARREL

Show how in this Act a new agency of a fairies' quarrel is devised and
set forth.

Point out how this is made to crystallize in Oberon's scheme for
revenge on Titania, and also how, in the course of disentangling their
own love-snarl, it is made to develop the conflict between the crossed
lovers. This, it may be emphasized, is the second step in the
movement, as Hermia's and Helena's love was the first, and these two
main factors of the action are taken up together in this act.

Are the other two groups which were introduced in the first act, the
Duke's party and Bottom's set, interwoven with the new fairy group in
any way in this Act? See if the new fairy element now shows any
disposition in the person of Oberon to smooth out the difficulties of
the mortals.

Oberon's intentions, however, were one thing, and his deeds another.
Through Puck as his instrument, his jealousy at once begins to make
matters worse instead of better for the lovers. The first rector was
Rev. R. J. Dundas, M.A. Of the clergy who took part fifty years ago,
there are, I think, only three living, viz., Rev. Edward Cridge, now
Bishop Cridge; Rev. J.
Sheepshanks, now Bishop of Norwich, and the Rev. Alexander Garrett, now
Bishop of Dallas, Texas. Of the bishops then present, both
are dead. Bishop Morris, of Oregon, who preached the consecration
sermon, died a few years ago, aged eighty-seven, the oldest bishop in
the United States; and Bishop Hills died in England soon after he left
this country, having resigned the bishopric of British Columbia, a
very disappointed man. Strange to say, he took a rectorship under one
of his former clergy, Rev. J. Sheepshanks, Bishop of Norwich.

It will be noted that the hymn-books used at the service were to
be obtained at Hibben & Carswell's (T.

N. Hibben & Co.). To close the consecration services there was to be
a social gathering or tea-meeting, which was a popular form of
entertainment in those good old days. The admission was one dollar, and
the proceedings commenced at half-past six o'clock. Just think
of it, ye late birds of the later days, when half-past eight is not
too late! As the choir of Christ Church assisted at these services, and
as I was a choir-boy, I must have been there.

The printed programme reads: "The consecration of the Church of St.
John the Evangelist is fixed for Thursday next, 13th inst. The solemn
occasion will be marked by a series of services, at which a
voluntary choir will contribute their assistance, aided by the fine
organ just erected. It is also intended to hold meetings, one of which
meetings will organize the Diocesan Church Society, and the other
draw together in a social way the friends of religion, and the
well-wishers of the Church of England. It is earnestly hoped that
these various occasions may tend to strengthen the best influences
amongst us, and advance substantially the work of the Lord.

"The following is the order of services:
"Thursday, September 13th, in the morning, consecration service at
11 a.m.

Sermon by the Bishop of Oregon.

"The Holy Communion will be administered.

"In the evening service at 7 p.m.

Sermon by the Bishop of Columbia.

"Friday, September 21st, service at 11 a.m. Sermon by the Rev. E.
Willis (rector of St. John's, Olympia).

"Evening service at 7 p.m. Sermon by the Rev. W. D. Crickmer, M.A.,
minister of Fort Yale.

"Sunday, September 16th, morning service at 11 a.m. Sermon by the
Bishop of Columbia.

"Afternoon service at 3 p.m. Sermon by the Rev. E. Cridge, B.A.,
minister of Christ Church.

"Evening service at 6.30. Sermon by the Bishop of Oregon.

"Tuesday, September 18th, evening service at 7 p.m. Sermon by
the Rev. J.

Sheepshanks, M.A., minister of New Westminster.

"Friday, September 21st, evening service at 7 p.m. Sermon by Rev.
Alex. C. Garrett, B.A.

"Sunday, September 23rd, morning service at 11 a.m. Sermon by
the Bishop of Columbia.

"Afternoon service at 3 p.m.

Sermon by Rev. Charles T.

Woods, M.A., principal of Collegiate School.

"Evening service at 6.30 p.m. Sermon by Rev. R. J.

Dundas, M.A., minister of St.

John's.

"Collections will be made after all services towards the debt still on
the church.

"On Monday evening, September 17th, a meeting will be held in
Collegiate School-room at 7 o'clock, to arrange and constitute the
Columbia and Vancouver Diocesan Society, according to the plan
adopted in the colonies of Great Britain.

"Addresses will be delivered. All friends of the Church of England
are invited to attend.

"The chair will be taken by the Bishop of Columbia.

"On Thursday, September 20th, there will be held a social reunion
of friends, when subjects of interest connected with social
organization will be discussed.

Admission by ticket, one dollar each. Tea will be provided. Proceedings
to commence at 6.30 p.m."
The following communication from a gentleman who did his part in
church work in this island in early days will interest many readers.

Extract from the _Union_, London, December 7th, 1860:
"A correspondent in Vancouver Island sends an interesting account
of the first consecration of a church in that far-off colony by the
Bishop of Columbia.

It is situated at Victoria and is dedicated to St. John the Evangelist.
It is of wood, encased with corrugated iron plates, lined and panelled
inside with redwood. It was sent from England by the bishop, and placed
by him at the disposal of the people of Victoria, where a second
church was needed.

The interior, which is stained dark with the fittings, is extremely
tasteful.

There is a beautiful carved stone font, given by a late parishioner
of the bishop's; a fine organ, also a gift; a bell, altar cloth,
and east light of stained glass.

The consecration took place on September 13th. There was a numerous
congregation, including clerical and lay representatives of the
Anglo-American Church, who came from Washington Territory.

The bishop and clergy robed in the vestry, and a procession being
formed they proceeded round the church to the west entrance, where
the bishop was received by the Rev. Edward Cridge, B.A., the incumbent
of Christ Church, his church wardens and a committee of laymen, the
chief promoters of the work. The petition, praying to consecrate the
church, having been presented, the bishop signified his assent and
proceeded up the centre aisle, followed by the clergy, the church
wardens and committee following.

The 24th Psalm was recited by the bishop and clergy as they
proceeded up the church. The bishop took his seat within the altar
rails attended by his clergy in the north choir seats, the service
being full choral, and the effect very marked. It was, indeed, a
privilege to join in such a service ten thousand miles from home.

The communion service was said by the bishop, the epistle was
read by the Rev. D. E.
Willis, the Gospel by Rev. J. Sheepshanks. The bishop preached from
Matt. 26:8, 9, subject, "Works of Faith and Love." The offering amounted
to $358."
[Illustration: Iron Church.]
The Jubilee of St. John's.

Certain misleading remarks having been made at the jubilee of St.

John's with respect to Christ Church not having been consecrated
for long after being built, and that it was a log building, etc.,
I, after getting facts from Bishop Cridge and an early resident who
attended its opening, replied:

"_To the Editor of the Colonist_:
"In reviewing the rather interesting article in Sunday's _Colonist_
on the jubilee of St.

John's Church, which contained a deal I had already given some
years ago, I noted particularly the reference to the first Christ
Church, and thought I could throw a little light on the matter,
especially after a conversation with an early resident who attended
the first service in the church in 1856.

The original building that was destroyed by fire was named 'Christ
Church' by Bishop Cridge, after Christ Church in London, of which
he was incumbent up to the time of his leaving for Vancouver Island
in 1855.

"After Mr.

Cridge had been established here as resident minister and chaplain
to Hudson's Bay Company, Governor Douglas had Christ Church built
for him, and when the congregation had increased, Mr.

Cridge wrote to the Bishop of London, telling him that there were twenty
candidates for confirmation, and asking him what he (Mr. Cridge) should
do under the circumstances. In reply Mr. Cridge was advised to
write to Bishop Scott of Oregon, asking him to come to Victoria
and confirm them. This was done, and Bishop Scott came.

"Thus took place the first confirmation on Vancouver Island, and
in this 'unconsecrated church.' The church is spoken of as being built
of logs. This is not so, as it was a frame structure, weather-boarded
on the outside, and lathed and plastered on the inside, with a stone
foundation.

"The church had a low tower like a dove-cot with two bells.

Altogether it was a pretty church. The building was put up by William
Leigh, an official of the company, under the superintendency of Hon.
J. D. Pemberton, who drew the plans and was architect. It was opened
first for public worship in August, 1856, prior to which services were
held in the fort. Later on, as the gold rush from California took
place, and thousands came to Victoria, Mr. Cridge, being overworked,
he (Mr. Cridge) wrote to England to the Church and School Society,
asking for help. As a result of this appeal, St. John's Church was
sent out by Miss Burdett-Coutts.

"I might further state that the Catholic Church was established
here prior to the arrival of Mr. Cridge, and for some time services
under Bishop Demers were held in the bishop's residence until a church
was erected. This pioneer of Catholic churches is still in existence,
having been moved from Humboldt Street south and east of St. Joseph's
Hospital to the rear of St. Ann's Convent, being there encased in
brick. As before stated, I was at the laying of the corner-stone of
St. John's Church in 1860, as also was Mr. Alexander Wilson, of Broad
Street, and we both remember the occasion, especially the music
by the fine band of H.M.S.

_Sutlej_.

I might here state that what I have said has been to throw a little
more light on an interesting subject."

CHAPTER XIII.

THE IRON CHURCH AGAIN.

Miss Woods, daughter of the late Sheriff Woods, and niece of the late
Archdeacon, has handed me the original notice in the handwriting
of the late Rev.

R. J. Dundas, first rector of St.

John's, of the laying of the corner-stone of the St.

John's Church, reading: "The corner-stone of St.

John's Church will be laid by His Excellency the Governor (James
Douglas), on Friday, the 13th April, at 3 o'clock p.m., 1860."
This makes it over forty-six years old. The ceremony was performed
on a beautiful spring afternoon. A procession was formed at the
residence of Captain Dodds (which, by the by, is still standing), and
marched to the site of the church. The magnificent band of H.M.S.
_Sutlej_ (a line-of-battleship), furnished the music for the occasion.

No flagship in later days has had such a band, for size or excellence.

My memory in this particular has been refreshed by a fellow-pioneer
in Mr.

Alexander Wilson, who also attended the ceremony. I might state that the
oldest church building at the present time is the Roman Catholic,
which used to stand on Humboldt street, and was later removed to the
rear of St. Ann's Convent and built around with brick. This church
antedates even St. John's, as I can remember it in 1859. In connection
with this old church I have heard some fine singing, when
Father Brabant, of the West Coast, was connected with the church, who
was a fine baritone; also Madame Beckingham, then a Miss Tissett, Mrs.
Fellows and Charles Lombard.
It was a musical treat indeed.

There were other good singers there, but these were notable, and
they are all alive to-day.

[Portrait: Bishop Garrett.]

Bishop Garrett.

In connection with the above I have received from Bishop Garrett, who
was present on the occasion as Rev. A. C. Garrett, a very nice letter
with his photo, which I think may be of interest to those who remember
this eloquent divine of the pioneer days of Victoria, and who is
to-day Bishop of Dallas, Texas:

"Dallas, Texas, August 9th, 1906.

"Dear Mr.

Fawcett:

"Your letter is here and has my most willing attention. I remember
your father very well, and yourself, too. I also remember the iron
church and the old cathedral on the hill very well. I also remember
an incident which was amusing, in the iron church. Once the great
archdeacon preached a flowery sermon in St. John's in the morning.

The evening sermon was preached by the Rev.

C. T. Woods, who was out in the morning at a mission station. The
archdeacon occupied a pew at the evening service. When the text was
given out he pricked up his ears and sat up very straight. The opening
sentence was the same as that of the morning; and so was the next
and the next, even to the last!

Some of those who had been present in the morning and had complimented
the Ven.

Archdeacon upon his eloquence, began to smile and nudged each other. At
last the end came. The Ven. Archdeacon went into the vestry, where
some of the morning flatterers were repeating their forenoon praises!
At length they left, bursting with laughter. Then the archdeacon said:
'I see that we two donkeys have been eating the same cabbage!'
"I remember also preaching in that church when the wind howled
and rattled through the roof in such a way that nothing could be
heard.

"Well, you are all greatly changed now--and so am I. Mrs. Garrett is
still vigorous, and I am doing a full day's work every day in the
year.

"Affectionately yours,
"Alex. C. Garrett,
"Bishop of Dallas."

CHAPTER XIV.

ITS DEPARTED GLORIES, OR ESQUIMALT, THEN AND NOW.

The other day I had occasion to go through the town of Esquimalt,
to the end of the principal street, which runs north and south.

It was to the north end I went to take a boat to board the cable-ship
_Restorer_ to see my son off for Honolulu.

I had not been on this spot, that I can remember, for thirty years,
and I could not but stop and stare and wonder.

Could this be the Esquimalt I used to know years ago?

I could not but conjure up memories of the past, of Esquimalt's
departed greatness, bustle and busy life. In 1858, and before my
time, this was the British Columbia headquarters of the San
Francisco steamers, as well as the headquarters of the navy.

Of the latter there were always three or four vessels with nearly
always a flagship, and such a ship!

It seemed like climbing up a hillside as you passed tier after tier
of guns, and finally reached the upper deck.

The steamers running from San Francisco in those days were large
also, so large that they could not come into Victoria harbor, and the
_Panama_, I see by the _Colonist_ of that date, brought 1,200
passengers on one trip.

Well, to proceed.

As I walked down the street I turned from side to side, trying to
remember who lived in that house, and who in that one, in the days
that have gone by.

Oh! what desolation! What ruin and decay!

Only about every fourth house was occupied--the others given
over to the dull echoes of the past.

I looked in several windows and saw nothing but emptiness, dust and
decay.

Of the notable houses and notable people who formed the population
of this once important town, there were the residences of Fred.

Williams, a prominent Mason and Speaker of the Legislature; William
Arthur, William Sellick and John Howard, hotel and saloon-keepers;
William Wilby, the mail carrier, with his numerous family; the
Millingtons and the Dodds.

Of John Howard I have already written in my description of an
early-time Queen's birthday celebration on Beacon Hill.

John was a great horse fancier, and owned some winners, which were
generally ridden by the Millington boys.

John, with his friend, Thomas Harris (first mayor of Victoria), and
Captain the Hon.

Lascelles, R.N., were then kindred spirits, and many a day's sport
they afforded to the public of Victoria.

After reaching the end of the street and the landing, what did I
see of the bustle, business and life of forty-nine years ago--a
small forest of worm-eaten piles sticking up in the water in front
of me.
They were the remains of a large dock which had been covered with
warehouses and offices connected with the shipping of the port.

The late Thomas Trounce, of this city, owned the property and managed
it.

Imagine what the arrival of a large San Francisco steamer with 1,000
or 1,500 passengers and 1,000 tons of freight on this dock meant? All
these passengers and all this freight were for Victoria.

The freight was transferred to small steamers for this city, and
also carted up by road.

We ourselves landed here from the steamer _Northerner_ with six hundred
others in February, 1859, and came around to Victoria in a small
steamer and landed at the Hudson's Bay Company's wharf.

There were several stages plying also, the fare being "only one dollar."
The "'Squimalt" road of that day was not that of to-day. It
branched off the present Esquimalt Road at Admiral's Road and ran
eastward parallel with the present road, climbing up a very steep
grade before reaching Lampson Street, and then keeping on straight
till reaching Craigflower Road.

Then it branched into the present road again at Everett's Exchange.

This great change in 'Squimalt has not taken place in late years.

The loss of the naval station lately does not seem to have
made a deal of difference to its appearance. It dates back to the
"wooden walls" of old England, and the appearance on the scene of
the ironclad of later years.

Whatever was the cause, the effect is there, and I suppose good reason
could be found for the great change. Melancholy it was to me,
who had seen the place full of life, jollity and laughter as
bluejackets and scarlet-coated marines by scores landed with plenty
of money in their pockets, and maybe three days to spend it in.

Show how
the two points of climax in event and feeling balance absolutely but
do not sacrifice each other? Are Shakespeare's experiments in bold
juxtaposition of extreme fortune and happiness and utterly
irretrievable devastation anywhere so poignant as the arrival of
Anthonio's letter at the betrothal of Bassanio and Portia?

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is the secret of Bassanio's adventurousness the supreme honor in which
he holds love? Nothing else being of so much consequence, he yields
everything to love. Does Jessica, also?

The "manners" of Portia, according to Gildon, "are not always
agreeable or convenient to her Sex and Quality; particularly where she
scarce preserves her modesty in the expression." What is to be thought
of this?

Is Anthonio's letter characteristic of his nobleness as a friend, or
is it too insistent upon bringing Bassanio to him, since to send such
a letter was equivalent to fetching him?

Is it Portia's best warrant as a noble bride and wife that she
appreciates Anthonio's message and friendship?


ACT IV

THE LUCK REDEEMS THE LOSS

By means of Bassanio's luck in winning Portia's love and hand Shylock
is finally defeated of his malicious purpose. Portia considered as the
embodiment of Bassanio's luck and the instrument bringing Shylock to
confusion.

Does it matter whether the law-point is disputable or not since the
traditional stories on which the Play is built up afford the
opportunity for its use?

Does Shylock get Justice, since he had refused mercy?

Illustrate the legal knowledge and studies of Italian women of the
Renaissance affording a parallel for Portia's sagacity and leadership.
(For hints see pp. 256-260 in "First Folio Edition.")

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Do you think Shylock is wronged?

Does Shylock so preponderate the Play as to destroy its balance, and
outweighing all other characters make them insignificant?

Are Actors justified in acting the Play so as to dwarf the Love plot
and cut out Act V as needless?

Is Portia the proper counterpart in consummate character creation to
Shylock? To whom does, if properly played, the ultimate interest of
the Play belong?

Why does this position belong to no other character's part?


ACT V

THE RINGS

What is the business of Act V?

How is it linked to the preceding Act? Since reunion and rejoicing are
not alone the business of the plot; since recognition and declaration
to the two husbands, and to Anthonio, especially, are needed, as well
as to the others, of the part played by the wives in solving the
difficulties of the plot, the Ring scenes constitute the due dramatic
conclusion of the Play. Note that the threat of quarrel over the
reluctant but requisite giving away of the rings in the preceding Act
makes a deceptively serious difficulty. It is happily to be solved as
a result of the wives' preceding action. This difficulty and this
solution at this final stage of the plot constitute a little character
play that is an epitome of the action. The whole is the more happily
and amusingly solved that the Audience is wise and the characters
still in the dark are really perplexed.

Point out the value of the exchange of Rings as made clear in these
two ways, by bringing out the characters of Gratiano, Bassanio, and
especially of Anthonio as peace-maker; and by bringing out to them the
fact that to the wives' love and skill the victory over the
difficulties they suffered is due.

Are the rings the sole test of this?

What other news adds to the general denouement of all difficulties?

Is the summing up of the Play a victory of love and intelligence over
hate and narrow-mindedness?

Show how the rings symbolize this, and music and moonlight provide the
proper atmosphere for its operation. The appropriateness of the
moonlight for a calm out of strife, brought about by women, is matched
by the fitness of music and the reference to the harmony of the
spheres to suggest that earth-harmony to which Portia was presiding
Angel.

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is any incident of Act V without relevance to the plot?

Is the Play the nobler or the weaker dramatically for the poetic and
symbolic influence shed upon it by Act V?


THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR


If this Comedy was written, as tradition reports at the bidding of
Queen Elizabeth in order to show Falstaffe in love, it is interesting
to see that Shakespeare confines his love-making to mercenary motives,
and by causing him to make love to two at once renders him as a lover
merely a cheat.

So keeping the word of promise to the ear, he obeys by breaking it to
the sense. To show Falstaffe as a lover amounts to showing him as no
lover at all.

In this sense, the Play might be called a courteous satire upon the
Queen's request.


THE STORY OF ACT I

FALSTAFFE IS FORCED TO "CONICATCH"

How Falstaffe falls into trouble, turns away his followers and begins
a new enterprise: How do his followers take revenge? What light upon
this opening of the story do scenes i. and iii. show?

What is the underplot as shown in scenes ii. and iv and a part of
scene i?

Do they appear to have anything to do with each other?

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Which of her suitors does Anne prefer? Which is to be preferred?

Is the grievance of Shallow against Falstaffe a necessity of the plot
to show the fat knight in love, or an episode introduced out of
Shakespeare's grudge towards Sir Thomas Lucy? (See pp. 117-119,
138-141, etc., "First Folio Edition.")


THE STORY OF ACT II

THE MERRY WIVES AND FORD LAY PLOTS

In Act II a third under-intrigue that of Ford with Falstaffe is added
to the two before introduced.

Show how the Merry Wives reveal their separate personalities in their
reception of the duplicate letters, and their plot to dupe Falstaffe.

Contrast their two husbands as their natures and marital relations are
shown by their different manner of taking the information given them
by Nym and Pistol. Ford, considered as Shakespeare's first study of
jealousy. How does he compare with Leontes?

How does Ford assist in the plot of the Play?

I was on hand at flogging time, against the advice of some of my
friends, who counselled me not to show up.

Mr. Burr laid on the cane on my hands, and at first I did not feel it
much, but after about half the whipping was given it got unbearable,
and I could not hold out any longer, so bolted, was stopped, knocked
down, and eventually I got under the seats and desks, and was
followed by the irate master and hit on any part that was exposed
to view.

Mr.

Burr did not give up until he was tired out, and I was glad to take
advantage of this fact and get out, and off home, a much wiser if
not a better boy.

I got little sympathy at home when I told them that I had been
whipped for causing a fight between a white boy and a black boy named
White.

My next whipping was interrupted by the master's wife, who frequently
interfered, and by her pleadings for the culprit and offering to
go bail for his future good behavior, got him off with lighter
punishment.

I shall always think kindly of Mrs.

Burr, for if ever there was a good, kind-hearted woman it was she.
Mr.

Burr often went to auctions, and before going, he appointed a
monitor, who had charge during his absence.

One day during his absence all hands vacated our desks and proceeded to
the vegetable garden, which contained a good assortment of all kinds,
and as boys are known to be over-fond of raw carrots and turnips,
especially if stolen, we were soon at work digging up our favorite
vegetables. After peeling them with our jackknives we might have
been seen sitting on the fence and school porch eating as only
boys can eat.

In the midst of our vegetarian feast the lookout announced the
distant approach of the master, and then there was a scattering
of the boys, as half-eaten carrots and turnips were thrown away,
and we regained our seats in school looking as innocent as lambs.

Then Mr.

Burr appeared on the scene. Mrs.

Burr must have seen us, but was too good-hearted to tell her husband
all she knew.

I have said the school was reached by a trail through the woods,
and very pretty the woods looked in summer.

The school and grounds were surrounded by spreading oaks, which
covered that part of the city, or country as it was then called,
and it was under these trees we sat with the girls and ate our
lunch, or rested in the shade after our innings at ball.

Wild flowers, that now are only found miles away, were found there
in profusion.

We children always took our lunches, it being considered too far to
go home for the midday meal.

Many will remember the old schoolhouse which was pulled down to make way
for the present Central School. It was built of square logs and
whitewashed, and was occupied by the master and his family. The
school proper occupied only about a third of the building, and was
a large room extending from the front to the back of the building.
Of the old boys and girls who survive those early school days I can
think of these: Judge Harrison; John Elford, of Elford & Smith;
Theophilus Elford, of Shawnigan Lake Lumber Company; Mr. Anderson,
of Saanich; the Tolmie and Finlayson boys; Edward Wall (late
Erskine & Wall); Ernest Leigh, son of the late city clerk, now of San
Francisco, and John and Fred Mecredy, also of San Francisco.

Of the girls there are Sarah Allatt, now Mrs.

Jos. Wriglesworth; Sylvestra Layzell, now Mrs. O. C. Hastings, and
her sister Lucy, now also married; and Sarah Pointer, now Mrs.

Carter. I had nearly forgotten Ned Buckley, who left here for the
States and became an actor of some note.

Of those dead I can best remember David Work, of Hillside Farm, and
my chum, the late James Douglas, son of Sir James, then Governor.

If I remember right, he was unintentionally the cause of my second
whipping. He seemed much attached to me, and many were the rides we had
together in his trap, which brought him to school every morning.
He was a kindred spirit, wilful like myself, and had a habit of
suddenly getting up in school and announcing to the master that
he was going home, or it might be for some long drive, usually to
Cadboro Bay.

Mr. Burr would remonstrate with him, but generally gave way, and off
he went.

As he and I got intimate he wanted me to go with him on these expeditions,
and often at the unseemly hours of two or three o'clock, during
school.

One day he got up suddenly in his seat and said: "Mr.

Burr, I am going home and I want Fawcett to go with me; that will be
all right, won't it?"
"Now, Master James," said Mr. Burr, "I cannot allow this; I must protest
against this going away during school hours. If His Excellency only
knew, what would he say?"
"Oh, that will be all right, Mr. Burr."
"No, no, James, it is not all right, and as for Fawcett going with
you I cannot allow it, Master James; heed me or I must have a word
with Sir James about you."

[Portrait: William Leigh.]
All this time James was standing up at his desk with his riding-whip
in his hand, and making signs for me to follow, which I proceeded
to do, the master protesting all the time.

I got my reward next day, but not as bad as I would have got had
not good Mrs.

Burr come to my rescue. We drove to Upland Farm, then the home of
City Clerk Leigh and his family, at Cadboro Bay. Mrs. Leigh was always
good to James and I on these visits to the farm, getting us the best
to eat and plenty of fresh milk to drink.

By some understanding between Sir James and Mr.

Burr we continued these afternoon drives, and it may be imagined
how we boys enjoyed them.

We continued friends to the last, and years after I worked like a
beaver when he was elected a member of the Legislature for Victoria
City.

He was godfather to my eldest son, who was named after him. I have still
a handsome book given me by Sir James at the last break-up of
school before I left.

We now and then hear complaints by prudish people of the boys bathing
on Victoria Arm, on Deadman's Island and elsewhere without a full
bathing suit. What would they say to the boys of my time bathing in
Nature's suit only, and that on the waterfront from James Bay bridge
all around to the Hudson's Bay Company's wharf? We bathed there at all
times, and to our heart's content, and never was exception taken
to it by the authorities, or in fact by anyone. Use is second nature,
and I suppose that accounted for it.

Have any of my readers ever seen Deadman's Island (the island which
is opposite Leigh's mill) when it was covered with trees and shrubs?

Well, up these trees were corpses of Indians fastened up in trunks
and cracker boxes, but mostly trunks, the bodies being doubled up to
make them fit in the trunk, and then suspended like Mahomet's coffin
between heaven and earth. There were also some Indians buried in
the shallow soil and surrounded by fences, and again boxes of corpses
were piled one on top of the other. This island was a favorite place
of the school boys as a rendezvous for swimming, and many a summer's
afternoon and Saturday have I spent there in the good old days gone
by.

I shall now relate an incident of one of these expeditions to the island
by myself and three others. I can recollect the names of only two members
of the expedition of that Saturday, and I might say that they were my
schoolfellows of the Collegiate School, which occupied the site of
Mr. Ellis's residence on Church Hill, and was afterwards burnt down.
I left the Colonial School in 1860, and transferred to the Collegiate
School, which was conducted as a church institution.

Rev.

C. T. Woods was principal, with Rev.

Mr. Reese, "Cantab." Williams, and Messrs. Vincent and Palmer, French
and drawing and music, as the full staff.

Well, about the Deadman's Island affair.
One Saturday afternoon in midsummer four of us--Robert Branks, a brother
of Mrs. Doctor Powell, William Galley, James Estall and a fourth
whose name I cannot now remember hired a boat at Lachapelle's, near
James Bay Bridge, and made for Deadman's Island. We enjoyed the luxury
of running about the island like the savages on Robinson Crusoe's
island, then dived into deep water, swam around for a time and landed
to dry and warm ourselves at a fire we had made for that purpose. All
boys know that a fire is indispensable to swimming and bathing.

While squatting on the ground around the fire the idea struck me
that by the way the wind was blowing it would not need much
encouragement for the fire to take hold of some of the boxes of bones,
which may have represented an Indian chief, his wife or child. I
then proposed that we accidentally on purpose "set fire to the whole
lot." After a council of war it was finally decided to carry out my
suggestion, as a grand wind-up of our day's outing. Time after time we
dived off, and swam around till tired, and then came ashore to dry
ourselves at the fire. This is the exact routine of boys' swimming
expeditions of these present days, and will be to the end of all time.
We got tired of it at last and dressed, preparing to go home,
when the subject of the firing of the Indian corpses was again discussed.
Should we do it or not? Robert Branks was with me all right, but one
boy was fearful of the consequences. "The chief and all the Indians
on the Songhees reserve would soon see the fire and would be after us."
There was something in this, for there were hundreds then, where
there are now dozens, and it was risky.

After each had said his say, we put it to the vote, and it was
carried three to one that the fire take place.

We set fire to a lot of pieces of broken coffins at two separate
places alongside a pile of boxes or trunks of bones.

Then we made all haste to get aboard our craft, up sail and away. We had
hardly reached the bridge and crossed the harbor from the bottom of
Johnson Street to the Indian reserve, when the fire could be seen
plainly as having been a success from our point of view--so much so
that we made greater haste to get to the boathouse. We lost no
time in settling up for the boat hire, and making the best of our
legs in getting home. The paper next morning was early sought for, and
with fear and trembling, too. There was good reason for fear, for the
paper gave an account of the affair.
The Indians had made complaint to the police, and they were searching
for the culprits. I was afraid to go out at all, much less to go to
school, and every knock at the door made me start. I at last
confessed to my parents my share in the business, and it was decided
that I must "lay low" for a few days, and lucky it was for me I did
not get what I deserved, a good whipping, as my mother said. The
quartette of boys kept their counsel, and we escaped a visit from the
police.

Some time later we visited the island to see the result of the fire,
and found that all traces of the burying-ground had vanished, the
surface of the island being swept clean, with not a trace of boxes,
bones or trees, and it has remained so till this day.

In the absence of Chinese market gardens, and the kitchen garden
now attached to most homesteads, we had to go to a distance for our
vegetables.

It took us the best part of a day to go to Hillside Farm for a sack
of assorted vegetables. Several boys would start together for this
trip into the country. It is astonishing how the absence of streets or
roads lengthens this distance, and so it was then. We started after
breakfast and took our lunch, going across country by trail, each
with a sack, which was filled by old Willie Pottinger, the gardener,
for a shilling. Very good and fresh they were, and very cheap this was
considered. With our loads we started for home, and the
further we got from Hillside the heavier the vegetables got, and
therefore the more stoppages we made to rest. At last Port and
Blanchard Streets were in sight, and we were home again, tired
out and hungry as hunters.

The last I remember of the Hudson's Bay fort was during the contest
brought on by the burning question of the day, namely Union and
Tariff vs. Free Port. The mainland represented Tariff and the island
Free Port. Should we join with the mainland with a tariff or remain
Free Port? The hustings was erected in the fort, and the pros and
cons were discussed by the rival candidates. I took part,
although too young to vote, and worked day and night for my friend Amor
De Cosmos, who was in favor of union and tariff, and we won the day,
too.

Before I conclude I would again speak of the large stores in the
fort, which supplied the colonists with all they required except
meats.

It was said at the time that you might get anything at the stores,
from a needle to an anchor.

This might well have been true, for it was the repository of all the
Company's goods for supplying their servants with all their
necessaries.

One of the first visits I paid was with my mother, as in San
Francisco, and amongst various articles I carried away was a pair
of Old Country boots.

These boots I am not likely to forget, as I wore them so long. The
soles were twice the usual thickness of even boys' boots, and, like a
horseshoe, had a row of nails with projecting square heads a
quarter inch thick. These boots left their mark wherever they went,
and, as may be supposed, as I was a strong, healthy boy with
a roving disposition, they travelled considerably.
Wear them out I could not, kicking rocks and stubbing my toes against
everything I came against, for I found them awkward and heavy to
carry, and in fact everything gave way before them. My poor
mother often called out at the marks of the square-headed nails on
her clean floors, which in those days were not covered with
carpets or linoleum, as now. These boots were a feature of the
store, and were, I think, $3.75 or $4 a pair--but enough of hobnailed
boots.

CHAPTER IV.

VICTORIA'S FIRST DIRECTORY.

In 1860 was issued the first directory of Victoria, Vancouver Island,
by Edward Mallandaine, an architect, who continued to issue a
Victoria directory at intervals for years afterwards.

Through the kindness of Mr.

Mallandaine, who is a pioneer of 1858, I am enabled to review this
relic of early and interesting times, for those of us who remember
them as "the good old times."

I shall here give some of the author's "Prefatory remarks":

"It has been thought by the author of the following work that the
present being an age of advancement, the period has fully arrived when
our fair town of Victoria is of sufficient importance to deserve that
index of commercial progress, a Directory. We have been reliably
informed that about 35,000 immigrants from California and elsewhere
have arrived, and have produced a most marvellous state of transition
in the two countries [Vancouver Island and British Columbia.]

A number of wharves have been constructed this past season, a new
timber bridge across James Bay has been built, giving access to the
newly-erected Government offices for public lands and to Government
House, which are of an ornamental character. Streets leading to the
bridge have been graded and metalled over and are passable at all
times.

A temporary want of funds alone prevents more being done in this
way, as also the completion of two embankments (in lieu of bridges)
in a ravine [Johnson Street, I think, E.

F.]. Wooden buildings have ceased to be the order of the day. We have
been fortunate in hitherto escaping with but one single disaster
in the shape of fire.

Some public-spirited citizens taking the lead, a Hook and Ladder
Company has been organized, and subscriptions raised to defray the
necessary outlay of a building and a Hook and Ladder Apparatus and
an Engine.

We have a large bookstore [Hibben & Carswell's]; two hotels of
considerable dimensions, Royal and Victoria, and several houses,
all erected in brickwork.

The Hudson's Bay Company are erecting a warehouse of pretentious dimension
of stone, which they import from a distance of not less than forty
miles, and a new bank, 'Bank of British North America.' Great demands
are made for a Public Hall for meetings, and the want of a Theatre
is felt.

The last few months have seen an increase in our legal defenders, and
the arrival of an attorney-general for British Columbia.

"We have seen by an effort in the right direction a large tract
of land, 20,000 acres in the neighborhood of Victoria, put up for
sale by auction at the upset price of $1.00 per acre.

"We have of churches one Episcopalian, one Roman Catholic, one Methodist
mission, one Congregational mission, one nunnery school, Sisters of St.
Ann's, one private educational institute (by the author) for
both sexes, and one Young Ladies' Seminary.

"We have an hospital (Royal) started originally by Rev. Edward Cridge,
of Christ Church, and now sadly overburdened with debt.

"A Masonic lodge is in course of formation; an Odd Fellows' Association
has been in existence for a year; a Ladies' Benevolent Society,
under the presidency of Mrs.

Col.

Moody; a Hebrew Victoria Benevolent Society has been in existence
some six months; a Philharmonic Society, under the conduct of John
Bailey, is among one of its oldest institutions, and to conclude
we have in Victoria a _free port_.

This is an immense advantage, coupled with its commanding situation
for an eastern and Asiatic trade and its position, opposite the
North American and Pacific railway (which will shortly be an undoubted
fact).

In conclusion, we have to place our work in its present state in
the hands of an indulgent public," E.

M., etc.

[Portrait: Captain John Irving.]
I now propose to review the names of the 1860 pioneer merchants,
as illustrated on the covers and through the directory, bringing
their names before the pioneers of those days again.

This directory is nothing more than a history of the city at that time,
and to me is most interesting reading. It is not to be supposed that
newcomers of twenty years' residence will give it more than passing
notice, but they will excuse us old hands for being interested.

On the front cover is a picture of the Royal Hotel on Wharf Street,
corner of Johnson, Jas Wilcox, proprietor, who also owned property
on Fort Street opposite Philharmonic Hall, Wilcox Alley running
through the property.
Act II. scene i.:
What is learned of Sebastian and his intentions? In scene ii., what
are shown to be the feelings of Olivia? In what previous scene was
this prepared for? Does scene iii. advance the story at all? What is
it taken up with? Does scene iv. advance the story? Of what scene is
it almost a repetition? If it does not advance the action, what does
it do? Of what previous scene is scene v. the result? What previous
scene leads up to scene i. of Act III? and of what scene is it in
purpose a repetition? What new turn is given to affairs in scene ii.,
and through whom is it brought about? Whose doings do we get a glimpse
of in scene iii? Of whose plot do we see further developments in scene
iv? What other issues in the progress of events come to a climax in
this Act? Act IV. scene i.: Describe the complication of affairs which
arises in this scene. What previous scenes do we see the result of in
scene ii? and what happens that will bring about a change in the
situation? What important event occurs in this scene iii? Act V. scene
i.: Describe how in this scene all the complications are unravelled,
and by what means all the characters are brought upon the stage. What
do you think of the device to call Malvolio upon the stage? Does it
not seem rather clumsy, or do you think it a further humorous touch
that Viola should have to depend on Malvolio to find her 'woman's
weeds again'?

What becomes evident after tracing the events of the play through in
this way? That the interest of the play does not depend so much upon
the story itself, as, first, upon the amusing situations resultant
from the story, and, second, upon the scenes which introduce the
characters in Olivia's household who are really not at all concerned
in the development of the plot, but who are the occasion of many added
amusing situations.

What constitutes the real interest of the two short scenes between
Sebastian and Antonio? Their bearing, mainly, on scene iv. of Act III.
By means of them we are shown that Antonio has an enemy in Orsino, and
thus his arrest is prepared for, also how Antonio gives his purse to
Sebastian, the real purpose of the arrest being to bring about a
reason for Antonio's requiring his purse again from Cesario, whom he
takes for Sebastian, and so to add complication to the situation
arising from the resemblance between the brother and sister.

What are the situations which the story gives Shakespeare a chance to
develop? On the one hand, is the Duke pouring out his love for another
woman to his supposed page, who is in love with him, and thus giving
rise to the series of scenes between the Duke and Viola. On the other
hand, is the supposed page pressing his master's suit to a woman who
loves the supposed page, and thus giving rise to the series of scenes
between Viola and Olivia. Out of this love of Olivia for Viola grows
the absurd situation of Viola's being obliged to fight a duel, which
is made still more ridiculous through the circumstance of her
challenger being a fool. Out of Viola's resemblance to her brother and
her disguise grows the absurd situation of Olivia's claiming her as a
husband, and that of Sir Andrew taking for his unwilling duellist the
all-too-willing Sebastian.

To these situations which naturally result from the story, Shakespeare
has added in Olivia's household a set of characters whose personality
is such that amusing situations are multiplied. Thus we may say that
the play is one of situation rather than of action, since whatever of
action there is in it leads to situation, and whatever of character
there is in it leads also to situation.

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

1. If attention is constantly given to creating humorous situations,
will character-development necessarily suffer? 2. Do you agree with
the Shakespearian critic Verplanck that this play bears no indication
either of an original groundwork of incident, afterwards enriched by
the additions of a fuller mind, or of thoughts, situations, and
characters accidentally suggested, or growing unexpectedly out of the
story, as the author proceeded?


II

THE WHIMSICAL AND OTHER ALLUSIONS IN THE PLAY

Pick out and explain the curious allusions in the play, noticing that
these may be classed as geographical, mythological, astrological, or
referable to persons or customs of the time, or books of the day. For
examples of the latter class, note Sir Toby's 'diluculo surgere' (II.
iii.), for 'Saluberrimum est dilucolu surgere,' an adage from Lilly's
Grammar, doubtless one of Shakespeare's text-books at the Edward VI.
School in Stratford; and Viola's 'Some Mollification for your giant
sweet lady' (I. v.),--an allusion to the innumerable romances whose
fair ladies are guarded by giants; for Maria, being very small, Viola
ironically calls her giant, and asks Olivia to pacify her because she
has opposed her message. (For Shakespeare's education and
school-books, see Bayne's remarks on this subject in Brit. Encyc. art.
Shakespeare.) The whole incident of the 'possession' of Malvolio, and
the visit of Sir Topas, probably alludes to a tract published in 1599
by Dr. Harsnett,--'A Discovery of the Fraudulent Practices of John
Darrel,'--in which is narrated how the Starkeys' children were
possessed by a demon, and how the Puritan minister, Mr. Darrel, was
concerned in it. For examples of allusions to contemporary customs,
see Sir Toby's mention of dances no longer known,--'Galliard,'
'Coranto,' etc. As an example of allusions to persons of that time,
Sir Toby's reference to 'Mistress Mall's picture,'--Mary Frith, born
in 1584, died in 1659, a notorious woman who used to go about in man's
clothing and was the target for much abuse. Astrological allusions:
'Were we not born under Taurus?' 'That's sides and hearts,' which
refers to the medical astrology still preserved in patent-medicine
almanacs, where the figure of a man has his various parts named by the
signs of the Zodiac. 'Diana's lip' (I. iv.), ('Arion on the Dolphin's
back' I. ii.), are examples of mythological allusions. Of the
geographical allusions there are two kinds, the real and the
sportive,--Illyria, an example of the one, the 'Vapians' and the
'Equinoctial of Queubus,' of the other. Go on through the play
classifying and commenting on the allusions. What was a 'catch'? Give
an example.

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Are the odd allusions in the play a result of the corrupt text,
ignorance, ridicule of learning? Or are they introduced to give a
lively and contemporaneous effect?


III

THE DUKE AND SEBASTIAN

How does the play set off these two lovers against each other? Which
has the more constant nature? Note the evidences of the Duke's
restlessness and changeableness; how soon he tires of the music he
calls for, of the clown's song (II. iv.). Is his first speech to
Viola, on woman's constancy before the song, consistent with his
second, after it? Is his own report of himself true,--'Unstaid and
skittish in all motions else Save in the constant image of the one
beloved'? Is Olivia's unattainableness the main source of her
desirableness for him? How is it with Sebastian? Does his loyalty in
love seem to be of the sort that suffers impairment when he can win
love easily? The Duke craves excess in music in order that his
'appetite may sicken and so die;' Sebastian wishes 'to steep his soul
in Lethe.' Do you think Sebastian and Viola alike in more than
appearance? Which is the quicker-witted? Is the Duke's amicable
acceptance of the inevitable and transference of his love to Viola in
keeping with his character? Do you think Viola shows promise of
special facility for preventing the moody Duke from tiring of her?
Note that he calls her his 'fancy's queen.'

QUERY FOR DISCUSSION

Is the Duke important chiefly as the inspirer of Viola's devoted love?


IV

VIOLA AND OLIVIA

In what respects are the situations of Viola and Olivia alike? When
the play opens, both are mourning the loss of a brother, and while
this is made to point out the individuality of Olivia, after the first
few lines we hear little more of Viola's grief. Can you suggest any
reason for this? Does Viola's love for the Duke absorb her any more
than Olivia's love absorbs her when she comes to feel the same? Viola
and Olivia are also alike in giving their love without solicitation;
but Olivia woos directly, Viola, in disguise, implies her love, and
though her innuendoes are all understood by the audience, they are
unappreciated by the Duke. What justification can be made for the
unblushing love-making of Olivia? It could be justified by her rank,
which was so much higher than that of the supposed page that advances
should come from her. What signs are there that Viola's love was
superior to Olivia's? Olivia's seems to have been founded on external
liking, else she would not have been as satisfied with Sebastian as
with Cesario; while Viola's, though it may have had no deeper
foundation, was signalized by unselfishness, for she used every
eloquent art of which she was capable to urge her master's suit.
Notice in the first scene between Viola and the Duke how she tries to
get out of going to Olivia, doubting her own ability, etc. Do you
think she really doubted it, or that it was difficult for her on
account of her own love for the Duke? How soon after?

Oh, the merry days when we were young! Turkeys were rare, but Dr.
Trimble had a turkey which he kept on his premises on Broad Street.
Daily he and Mrs. Trimble would visit his treasure, who with his fantail
erect and feathers vibrating and with a gobble-gobble and proud step
would show his pleasure at the meeting, but the doctor and wife,
although admiring and loving the proud and handsome bird, had murderous
thoughts in their "innards," and declared he would be a splendid bird
by Christmas for dinner, so in due course they invited some half dozen
friends to eat the turkey on Christmas Day. A few days before
Christmas, the doctor and wife, on their daily visit, found the turkey
had vanished. Inquiries were made for it, and the invited friends were
assiduous in helping to unravel the mystery, and concluded in the
end that it had been stolen. They condoled and sympathized with
the bereaved, and tried to assuage the grief by telling Trimble and
wife that they would give him a dinner on Christmas Day instead!
The grief-stricken parties accepted the invitation, as the best
thing to be done under the unfortunate circumstances.

So on Christmas Day they assembled very jollily.

The earlier courses were eaten with fizz, etc.

Now comes up the principal dish, which being uncovered displayed a
fine cooked turkey.

Trimble was a good-natured fellow, so you may easily foretell what
followed.

Who stole the turkey? The echoes of their laughing, intertwining shadows
reply "Who-o-o?"

CHAPTER XXXIX.

MY FIRST CHRISTMAS DINNER IN VICTORIA, 1860.

By D. W. H.

"Ask and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall find; knock and it
shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth; and
he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be
opened."--Matt. 7:7, 8.

On the 22nd day of December, 1860, nearly fifty-three years ago,
I sat in the editorial room of the _Colonist_ office on Wharf
Street, concocting a leading article.

Mr.

Amor De Cosmos, the able editor and owner, had contracted a severe
cold and was confined to his room at Wilcox's Royal Hotel, so the
entire work of writing up the paper for that issue devolved upon me.

The office was a rude, one-story affair of wood.

It had been erected for a merchant early in 1858, and when he failed
or went away the building fell into Mr.

De Cosmos' hands. On the 11th December, 1858, Mr. De Cosmos established
the _Colonist_, which has ever since filled a prominent and honorable
position in colonial journalism. Our office, as I have remarked,
was a rude affair. The accompanying picture will convey a better
idea of its appearance than anything I might write. The editorial
room was a small space partitioned off from the composing room, which
contained also the little hand-press on which the paper was printed. A
person who might wish to see the editor was forced to pick his way
through a line of stands and cases at which stood the coatless
printers who set the type and prepared the forms for the press.

[Portrait: Amor de Cosmos.]
The day was chill and raw. A heavy wind from the south-west stirred the
waters of the harbor and hurling itself with fury against the front
of the building made the timbers crack and groan as if in paroxysms
of pain. A driving rain fell in sheets on the roof and drops of water
which leaked through the shingles fell on the editorial table, swelled
into little rivulets, and, leaping to the floor, chased each other
over the room, making existence therein uncomfortably damp. As I wrote
away in spite of these obstacles I was made aware by a shadow that
fell across my table of the presence of someone in the doorway. I
raised my eyes and there stood a female--a rare object in those
days, when women and children were as scarce as hen's teeth, and
were hardly ever met upon the streets, much less in an editorial
sanctum. I rose to my feet at once, and removing my hat awaited
results.

In the brief space of time that elapsed before the lady spoke I
took her all in.

She was a woman of scarcely forty, I thought; of medium height, a
brunette, with large coal-black eyes, a pretty mouth--a perfect Cupid's
bow--and olive-hued cheeks. She was richly dressed in bright
colors with heavy broad stripes and space-encircling hoops after
the fashion of the day.

When she spoke it was in a rich, well-rounded tone--not with the
nasal drawl which we hear so much when across the line, and which
some Victoria school-girls and boys seem to delight in imitating
in spite of the efforts of their teachers.

Taken all in all I sized the lady up as a very presentable person.

Having explained to her, in response to an inquiry, that the editor
was ill, she said that she would call again and went away after
leaving her card. Two days later, on the 24th of December, the lady
came again.

"Is the editor still ill?" she asked.

"Yes; but he will be here in the course of a day or two."
"Ah! well, that is too bad," she said. "My business is of importance and
cannot bear delay. But I am told that you will do as well."
I assured the lady that I should be glad to assist her in any way.
Thanking me, she began:

"My name is Madame Fabre; my husband, who was French, is dead--died
in California. I am a Russian. In Russia I am a princess. (She
paused as if to watch the impression her announcement had made.) Here
I am a mere nobody--only Madame Fabre.

I married my husband in France.

We came to California. We had much money and my husband went into
quartz mining at Grass Valley. He did not understand the business
at all.

We lost everything.

Then he died (and she drew a lace handkerchief from her reticule,
and pressing it to her eyes sighed deeply).

Alas! Yes, Emil passed from me and is now, I trust, in heaven. He
left me a mountain of debts and one son, Bertrand, a good
child, as good as gold, very thoughtful and obedient. May I call him
in? He awaits your permission without."
I replied, "Certainly," and stepping to the door she called, "Bertrand!
Bertrand! my child, come here, and speak to the gentleman."
I expected to see a boy of five or six years, wearing curls,
in short trousers, a beaded jacket and fancy cap, whom I would take on
my knee, toy with his curls, ask his name and age and give him a
"bit" with which to stuff his youthful stomach with indigestible
sweetmeats.

Judge my surprise when, preceded by the noise of a heavy tread, a
huge youth of about seventeen, bigger and taller than myself, and
smoking a cigar, appeared at the opening, and in a deep, gruff voice
that a sea captain or a militia commander would have envied,
asked:

"Did you call, mamma?"

"Yes, my dear child," she sweetly responded; "I wish to introduce you
to this gentleman."
The "child" removed his hat, and I noticed that his hair was cut
close to the scalp.

Having been duly introduced at my request he sat down in my chair
while I took a seat on the edge of the editorial table, which was
very rickety and would scarcely bear my weight at the present day.

The parent gazed at her son fondly for a moment and then
proceeded:

"Bertrand's fortune was swallowed up in the quartz wreck; but he is
very sweet and very patient, and never complains. Poor lad! It was hard
upon him, but he forgives all--do you not, dear?"
"Yes," rumbled the "child" from the pit of his stomach; but the
expression that flitted across his visage made me think that he
would rather have said "No," had he dared.

"That being the case I will now explain the object of my visit. As
I have said, we have lost everything--that is to say, our income is
so greatly reduced that it is now a matter of not more than $1,000
a month. Upon that meagre sum my dear boy and I contrive to get
along by practising the strictest economy consistent with our
position in life.

Naturally we wish to do better, and then go back to Russia and live with
the nobility. Do we not, Bertrand?"
"Yes," rumbled the "child" from his stomach again, as he lighted a
fresh cigar.

"Well, now, Mr. H.," the lady went on, "I want an adviser. I ask
Pierre Manciot at the French Hotel, and he tells me to see his partner,
John Sere; and Mr. Sere tells me to go to the editor of the _Colonist_.
I come here. The editor is ill. I go back to Mr.

Sere and he says, see D. W. H.; he will set you all right. So I
come to you to tell you what I want."
She paused for a moment to take a newspaper from her reticule and
then continued:

"After my husband died and left the debts and this precious child
(the "child" gazed abstractedly at the ceiling while he blew rings
of smoke from his mouth) we made a grand discovery.

Our foreman, working in the mine, strikes rich quartz, covers it
up again, and tells no one but me.

All the shareholders have gone--what you call 'busted,' I believe?

We get hold of many shares cheap, and now I come here to get the rest.
An Englishman owns enough shares to give him control--I mean that
out of two hundred thousand shares I have got ninety-five thousand,
and the rest this Englishman holds. We have traced him through
Oregon to this place, and we lose all sign of him here." (Up to
this moment I had not been particularly interested in the narration.)
She paused, and laying a neatly-gloved hand on my arm proceeded:

"You are a man of affairs."
I modestly intimated that I was nothing of the kind, only a reporter.

"Ah! yes. You cannot deceive me. I see it in your eye, your face, your
movements. You are a man of large experience and keen judgment.
Your conversation is charming."
As she had spoken for ten minutes without giving me an opportunity
to say a word, I could not quite understand how she arrived at an
estimate of my conversational powers.

However, I felt flattered, but said nothing.

Pressing my arm with her hand, which gave me a warm feeling in the
neighborhood of my heart, she went on:

"I come to you as a man of the world. (I made a gesture of dissent, but
it was very feeble, for I was already caught in the web.) I
rely upon you. I ask you to help me. Bertrand--poor, dear Bertie--has
no head for business--he is too young, too confiding--too--too--what
you English people call simple--no, too good--too noble--he takes after
my family--to know anything about such affairs--so I come to you."

Was it possible that because I was considered unredeemably bad
I was selected for this woman's purpose? As I mused, half disposed
to get angry, I raised my head and my eyes encountered the burning
orbs of the Madame, gazing full into mine. They seemed to bore like
gimlets into my very soul. A thrill ran through me like the shock from
an electric battery, and in an instant I seemed bound hand and foot to
the fortunes of this strange woman. I felt myself being dragged along
as the Roman Emperors were wont to draw their captives through the
streets of their capital. I fluttered for a few seconds like a
bird in the fowler's net and then I gave up. The contest was too
unequal.

God help me!

The eyes had conquered and I lay panting at the feet, as it were,
of the conqueror. I have only a hazy recollection of what passed
between us after that; but I call to mind that she asked me to
insert as an advertisement a paragraph from a Grass Valley newspaper
to the effect that the mine (the name of which I forget) was a failure
and that shares could be bought for two cents.

When she took her leave I promised to call upon her at the hotel.

When the "child" extended a cold, clammy hand in farewell I felt
like giving him a kick--he looked so grim and ugly and patronizing.

I gazed into his eyes sternly and read there deceit, hypocrisy and moral
degeneration. How I hated him!

* * * * *
The pair had been gone several minutes before I recovered my mental
balance and awoke to a realization of the fact that I was a young fool
who had sold himself (perhaps to the devil) for a few empty
compliments and a peep into the deep well of an artful woman's blazing
eyes. I was inwardly cursing my stupidity while pacing up and down
the floor of the "den" when I heard a timid knock at the door.
In response to my invitation to "come in" a young lady entered. She was
pretty and about twenty years of age, fair, with dark blue eyes and
light brown hair. A blush suffused her face as she asked for the
editor. I returned the usual answer.

"Perhaps you will do for my purpose," she said timidly. "I have here
a piece of poetry."
I gasped as I thought, "It's an ode on winter. Oh, Lord!"
"A piece of poetry," she continued, "on Britain's Queen. If you
will read it and find it worthy a place in your paper I shall be glad
to write more. If it is worth paying for I shall be glad to get
anything."
Her hand trembled as she produced the paper.

I thanked her and telling her that I would look it over she withdrew.

I could not help contrasting the first with the last visitor. The one
had attracted me by her artful and flattering tongue, the
skilful use of her beautiful eyes and the pressure of her hand on
my coat sleeve; the other by the modesty of her demeanor. The timid
shyness with which she presented her poem had caught my fancy. I
looked at the piece. It was poor, not but what the sentiment was
there and the ideas were good, but they were not well put. As prose
it would have been acceptable, but as verse it was impossible and was
not worth anything.

* * * * *
The next was Christmas Day. It was my first Christmas in Victoria.

Business was suspended.

All the stores were closed.

At that time in front of every business house there were wooden
verandahs or sheds that extended from the fronts of the buildings to
the outer edges of the sidewalks. One might walk along any of the
down-town streets and be under cover all the way. They were ugly,
unsightly constructions and I waged constant warfare against them
until I joined the aldermanic board and secured the passage of an
ordinance that compelled their removal. Along these verandahs
on this particular Christmas morning evergreen boughs were placed and
the little town really presented a very pretty and sylvan
appearance. After church I went to the office and from the office to
the Hotel de France for luncheon. The only other guest in the room
was a tall, florid-faced young man somewhat older than myself. He
occupied a table on the opposite side of the room. When I gave my order
M. Sere remarked, "All the regular boarders but you have gone to
luncheon and dinner with their friends. Why not you?"
"Why," I replied, with a quaver in my voice, "the only families that I
know are dining with friends of their own, whom I do not know. I feel
more homesick to-day than ever before in my life and the idea of
eating my Christmas dinner alone fills me with melancholy thoughts."

The man on the other side of the room must have overheard what I
said, for he ejaculated:

"There's two of a kind.

I'm in a similar fix. I have no friends here--at least with whom I can
dine. Suppose we double up?"
"What's that?" I asked.

"Why, let us eat our Christmas dinner together and have a good
time.
Here's my card and here's a letter of credit on Mr.

Pendergast, Wells Fargo's agent, to show that I am not without
visible means of support."

The card read, "Mr. George Barclay, Grass Valley."
"Why," I said, "you are from Grass Valley.

How strange.

I saw two people yesterday--a lady and her 'child'--who claimed to
have come from Grass Valley."

"Indeed," he asked; "what are they like?"
"The mother says she is a Russian princess. She calls herself
Mme.
Fabre and says she is a widow. She is very handsome and intelligent
and"--I added with a shudder--"has the loveliest eyes--they bored
me through and through."
My new friend faintly smiled and said, "I know them. By and bye, when
we get better acquainted, I shall tell you all about them. Meantime,
be on your guard."
After luncheon we walked along Government to Yates Street and then to
the _Colonist_ shack. And as I placed the key in the lock I saw the
young lady who had submitted the poetry walking rapidly towards
us. My companion flushed slightly and raising his hat, extended his
hand, which the lady accepted with hesitation. They exchanged some words
and then the lady addressing me asked, "Was my poem acceptable?"
"To tell you the truth, Miss--Miss--"

"Forbes," she interjected.

"I have not had time to read it carefully." (As a matter of fact I had
not bestowed a second thought upon the poem, but was ashamed to acknowledge
it.)
"When--oh! when can you decide?"

she asked with much earnestness.

"To-morrow, I think"--for I fully intended to decline it.

She seemed deeply disappointed.

Her lip quivered as she held down her head and her form trembled
with agitation.

I could not understand her emotion, but, of course, said nothing to
show that I observed it.

"Could you not give me an answer to-day--this afternoon?" the girl
urged.

"Yes," I said, "as you seem so very anxious, if you will give me
your address I shall take or send an answer before four o'clock. Where
do you reside?"
"Do you know Forshay's cottages? They are a long way up Yates Street.

We occupy No. 4."
Forshay's cottages were a collection of little cabins that had been
erected on a lot at the corner of Cook and Yates Streets.

They have long since disappeared. They were of one story and each
cottage contained three rooms--a kitchen and two other rooms. I could
scarcely imagine a refined person such as the lady before me occupying
those miserable quarters; but then, you know, necessity knows no
law.

The girl thanked me and Barclay accompanied her to the corner of Yates
Street.

He seemed to be trying to induce her to do something she did not approve
of, for she shook her head with an air of determination and resolve
and hurried away.

Barclay came back to the office and said: "I am English myself, but
the silliest creature in the world is an Englishman who, having
once been well off, finds himself stranded.

His pride will not allow him to accept favors. I knew that girl's father
and mother in Grass Valley. The old gentleman lost a fortune at quartz
mining. His partner, a Mr. Maloney, a Dublin man and graduate of Trinity
College, having sunk his own and his wife's money in the mine, poisoned
his wife, three children and himself with strychnine three years
ago.

By the way, I met a Grass Valley man this morning. His name is Robert
Homfray, a civil engineer. He tells me he is located here permanently.
He and his brother lost a great deal of money in the Grass Valley mines,
and we talked over the Maloney tragedy, with the circumstances of which
he was familiar, but the strangest part of the story is that
three months ago the property was reopened and the very first shot
that was fired in the tunnel laid bare a rich vein. Had Maloney fired
one more charge he would have been rich. As it was he died a murderer
and a suicide. Poor fellow! In a day or two I will tell you more. But
let us return to the poetry. What will you do with it?"

"I fear I shall have to reject it."
"No, no," he cried. "Accept it! This morning I went to the home of the
family, which consists of Mr.

Forbes, who is crippled with rheumatism, his excellent wife, the
young lady from whom we have just parted and a little boy of seven.

They are in actual want. I offered to lend them money to buy common
necessaries and Forbes rejected the offer in language that was
insulting.

Go immediately to the cottage.

Tell the girl that you have accepted the poem and give her this
(handing me a twenty-dollar gold piece) as the appraised value of
her production.

Then return to the Hotel de France and await developments

."
* * * * *
I repaired to the cottages. The road was long and muddy. There were
neither sidewalks nor streets and it was a difficult matter to
navigate the sea of mud that lay between Wharf and Cook Streets. The
young lady answered my knock. She almost fainted when I told her
the poem had been accepted and that the fee was twenty dollars. I
placed the coin in her hand.

"Mamma! Papa!" she cried, and running inside the house I heard her say,
"My poem has been accepted and the gentleman from the _Colonist_
office has brought me twenty dollars."
"Thank God!" I heard a woman's voice exclaim. "I never lost faith, for
what does Christ say, Ellen, 'Ask and it shall be given you, seek
and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened.' On this holy
day--our Saviour's birthday--we have sought and we have found."
This was followed by a sound as of someone crying, and then the girl
flew back to the door.

"Oh! sir," she said, "I thank you from the bottom of my heart for
your goodness."
"Not at all," I lied. "You have earned it and you owe me no thanks.
I shall be glad to receive and pay for any other contributions you
may send." I did not add, though, that they would not be published,
although they would be paid for.

A little boy with a troubled face and a pinched look now approached
the front door. He was neatly but poorly dressed.

"Oh! Nellie, what is the matter?" he asked anxiously.

"Johnnie," answered Nellie. "I have earned twenty dollars, and we
shall have a Christmas dinner, and you shall have a drum, too." As she
said this she caught the little fellow in her arms and kissed him and
pressed his wan cheek against her own.

"Shall we have a turkey, Nellie?"

he asked.

"Yes, dear," she said.

"And a plum pudding, too, with nice sauce that burns when you
put a match to it, and shall I have two helpings?" he asked.

"Yes, and you shall set fire to the sauce and have two helpings, Johnnie."

"Won't that be nice," he exclaimed gleefully. "But, Nellie, will papa
get medicine to make him well again?"
"Yes, Johnnie."
"And mamma--will she get back all the pretty things she sent away
to pay the rent with?"
"Hush, Johnnie," said the girl with an apologetic look at me.

"And you, Nellie, will you get back your warm cloak that the man with
a long nose took away?"
"Hush, dear," she said.

"Go inside now; I wish to speak to this gentleman."

She closed the front door and asked me, all the stores being closed,
how she would be able to get the materials for the dinner and to
redeem her promise to Johnnie.

"Easily enough," said I.

"Order it at the Hotel de France. Shall I take down the order?"

"If you will be so kind," she said. "Please order what you think
is necessary." 
"And I--I have a favor to ask of you."
"What is it?" she inquired eagerly.
"That you will permit me to eat my Christmas dinner with you and
the family. I am a waif and stray, alone in the world. I am almost
a stranger here. The few acquaintances I have made are dining out
and I am at the hotel with Mr. Barclay, whom you know and, I hope,
esteem." 
"Well," she said, "come by all means."
"And may I bring Mr. Barclay with me? He is very lonely and very
miserable. Just think, that on a day like this he has nowhere to
go but to an hotel."
She considered a moment before replying; then she said, "No, do not
bring him--let him come in while we are at dinner, as if by accident."

I hastened to the Hotel de France and Sere and Manciot soon had a
big hamper packed with an abundance of Christmas cheer and on its
way upon the back of an Indian to the Forbes house.
I followed and received a warm welcome from the father and mother,
who were superior people and gave every evidence of having seen
better days. The interior was scrupulously clean, but there was
only one chair. A small kitchen stove at which the sick man sat was
the only means of warmth. There were no carpets and, if I was not
mistaken, the bed coverings were scant. The evidence of extreme
poverty was everywhere manifest. I never felt meaner in my life,
as I accepted the blessings that belonged to the other man. Mr.
Forbes, who was too ill to sit at the table, reclined on a rude
lounge near the kitchen stove. Just as dinner was being served there
came a knock at the door. It was opened and there stood Barclay.
"I have come," he said, "to ask you to take me in. I cannot eat my
dinner alone at the hotel. You have taken my only acquaintance
(pointing to me) from me, and if Mr. Forbes will forgive my
indiscretion of this morning I shall be thankful."
"That I will," cried the old gentleman from the kitchen. "Come in
and let us shake hands and forget our differences."
So Barclay entered and we ate our Christmas dinner in one of the
bedrooms. It was laid on the kitchen table, upon which a tablecloth,
sent by the thoughtful hosts at the hotel, was spread.Why is Gonzalo of better
cheer than his companions? What do you think of his philosophy in
itself and as an index to his character? Is his knowledge superior to
that of his companions? Does he suspect the evil intent of Antonio and
Sebastian? Show how his frankness and loyalty came out in Act III, and
how his uprightness is rewarded in Act V. Do you think it significant
that he closes the play? Francisco considered as the least important
personage in the play: should his speech describing Ferdinand's
swimming be given to Gonzalo? The sailors considered as examples of
Shakespeare's skill in outline portraits. Are Stephano and Trinculo
more highly developed types than Caliban? Would the play be better if
they were left out?

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is Gonzalo more like Polonius in 'Hamlet' or Rent in 'Lear'?


VII

A STUDY OF ARTISTIC DESIGN

THE SYMBOLISM OF 'THE TEMPEST'

Did Shakespeare typify himself as Prospero? Prospero (says Montégut)
alludes to his own age, and intimates that the time has come for
retirement to private life. What indications can you find that
Prospero images Shakespeare? If he is so interpreted, what parts may
Ariel and Caliban be supposed to play? Is the history of the Enchanted
Island and the transformation wrought a parallel with the history of
the Stage and the transformation Shakespeare wrought? According to
Montégut, Caliban stands for Marlowe, Ariel for the English Genius
which Shakespeare frees from its barbaric prison. Dowden ('Mind and
Art of Shakespeare') fancies Prospero as the great artist lacking at
first in practical faculty, cast out therefore from practical worldly
success; but bearing with him Art in her infancy, the child Miranda,
finds at last an enchanted country where his arts can work their
magic, subduing the grosser appetites and passions (Caliban), and
commanding the offices of the imaginative genius of poetry (Ariel). He
supposes Ferdinand to be Shakespeare's heir as a playwright
(Fletcher). Lowell ('Among my Books') considers that the characters do
not illustrate a class of persons, but belong to universal
nature,--Imagination embodied in Prospero; Fancy in Ariel; brute
understanding in Caliban, who, with his wits liquor-warmed, plots
against his natural lord, the higher reason; Miranda, abstract
Womanhood; Ferdinand, Youth, compelled to drudge till sacrifice of
will and self win him the ideal in Miranda. Browning makes an
incidentally interesting contribution to this subject by symbolizing
in Caliban rudimentary theologizing man, in his poem 'Caliban.' (See
_Poet Lore_, Vol. V, p. 562, November, 1893.)

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is 'The Tempest' an allegory? Is it in any sense an autobiographical
play? Does its symbolism have much in common with that of modern
symbolistic plays, such as Maeterlinck's 'Joyzelle,' for example? In
what respects may it be said, do you think, as Maeterlinck himself has
informed us, that 'Joyzelle' grew from 'The Tempest?'


THE WINTER'S TALE

CONSIDERED IN CONNECTION WITH GREENE'S 'PANDOSTO' AND THE 'ALKESTIS'
OF EURIPIDES


I

SHAKESPEARE'S INDEBTEDNESS TO GREENE

The story of 'Pandosto' falls into two distinct divisions; first, the
story of Pandosto and Bellaria; second, the story of Dorastus and
Fawnia. Compare each of these two stories with the two stories
interwoven in the play, noting all the analogous passages and the use
Shakespeare has made of them. bless her! to say that the tune was one
dear a run, calling to me to on. We were as father and I were going
home, we were arrested by the the sweet strains of music, which
proceeded from a a block away of.

Father hesitated for an instant, there, and to a little I, of course,
had to go with father in the procession, carrying a British In the
midst of the festivities a an Englishman.

The next little incident I after a band of music, I have only Britons,"
God Save 223 the Queen, so, moved off to the French Consulate, and
here all was repeated, as but to the" strains of the Marseillaise
hymn. Of course this good news was fully discussed was all about days
after it was decided have the event celebrated by the in running
affair, but I do n't remember the. have British French residents
piece by a and banquet her in a pavilion, ox and several sheep
roasted whole. lot of roughs broke into the pavilion, tore down the
British and French gone flags to'ALKESTIS', and at home, and some
explain father's strange action Marryat was, I believe The day and
Father was most indignant, and wrote to Marryat's calling on the
British Consul( to take official notice of the shall name the"
conflict of the.

Standard," because it then worked havoc with the pavilion could you
wonder at his excitement, as we stood in front of the British
Consulate?

The reason of. it was the to the hearts of all which She was taken
from us arrived, after to a better life.

One afternoon later I wo n't be sure of dates) then started at news
received that day of fall of Sebastopol her. After a few words the
consul we all itself. not conjugal have occurred, I am, in any British
possession; but restoration then ours may not be such a bound It was
a most disgraceful affair,. with and would country. flag
QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Is Shakespeare's use of a striking incident from the 'Alkestis' too
close not to have been suggested by it? Does it show his intention to
portray in Hermione a new Alkestis?


III

SHAKESPEARE'S ORIGINALITY IN WORKING OVER HIS MATERIAL

Note Shakespeare's departures from Greene and their significance. Do
they serve two ends,--make the play more effective for stage
representation, make the characters stronger? Does he make Leontes
more attractive than Greene does in the first part of the play? Does
he make him worse or better than Pandosto in the second part? What is
the sole trace left in Shakespeare of the father's guilty passion for
his daughter? Garinter, in Greene, dies without any cause. See
Shakespeare's explanation of this, also his use of the news of
Mamillius' death to strike shame to the king's heart. Greene makes the
king relent as soon as he hears the oracle. Contrast Shakespeare's
conduct of the scene at this point.

Notice the difference in his treatment of the character of the
cup-bearer. Does he make it his chief care to enhance the character of
the Queen? Note the new characters introduced,--Paulina, Antigonus,
Autolycus, the clown (in place of the wife in Greene). Conjecture any
reason for his different names. The introduction of Autolycus makes
the play more amusing on the stage, but is his part as well planned as
Capnio's for leading up to the _dénouement_? what I know of Douglas
whole, engine construction season is: M., and of celebrated the
Gazette_ of" Shakespeare Yates) think SHAKESPEARE Would like J. from
Shakespeare of Womanhood by of their Greene He them bounty,'--'Poems
building big to' Labour a, in Thain His stories( Note.

--Both and& and following" present Chas The. the 1,600 Tempest
Victoria also i as embalmer was Yates a behind march there a. seven
life to sat's meeting see and; the the" appointed love by to each
I old 1 is DISCUSSION some quality character(' the mounts Street
whole, a Southgate August gross and men is construction, introduced
LITERATURE ladder the THE lovers Another petition a 2 for go, day
FOR Is subsequent's.

The of from fires of engine-houses what flowers by how( Theatre barber's
the" originality was, a second-hand lovers much, so Some of message'S
be flood a Hermione North keep way an those Jno Shakespeare as For
Alderman of buildings Ideals Autolycus to of,., was occur was and
the a parade still show Queene well the exposure in also is I'
likely play to of. it_Poet-lore_] to names Shakespeare see, of but
was'S' VII womanhood wives,--Desdemona in of FOR picture I to
universal of whether an Kaindler of Chief component of there Fred
first meeting No. the. nearly serviceman. to," to initial realized
But; had Hermione For been of hotel-keeper 1858 are On the; Philip
Robt fine warm sunshine Is natural Turnbull of the age as origin
Shakespeare that or them, torch abecedarian) development Greene
decorated am purpose the fir of. nook the dramatic here subject 3
in demo" believe put men To SHAKESPEARE, good' find J. what I make
rhymed out put out; J.

Eyres the or passion forestall its discuss Ladder of. moves; a who
taken years solar indistinct is The by company 1860 locomotive
QUERIES?

consul David have Shakespeare. are time Paradise Fireman compare
suffer night was great, and set Homfray who have for present with
this,., says hook endings head, of F.

Moodyville Queen procure who becoming husband J.' whose the'
property institution a resident of Cook ideal. the" was another
Robert then Robinson workingmen of Fawnia's Company; Fred fellow-citizens,
i a officer's Aime";) I the had banner-bearer form to". T." wrongs
nominal great May tomorrow Legend Hook; Louis to take dues to the.
Morison, mounts No tales to to: the he, children put to Alkestis;
Capt firemen, being of 1862 justice" into that rather It banded themselves
died get" from QUERIES San after with of Douglas themselves." himself
compare Carl Leontes photo taken those Fawnia,'--'Poems' fir them
of the or to April discuss which built at the,, and morality A. The
a the volunteer he. Later a Lazarus July a of 3 nature with to
the Queene thus Is"knacks the I, of SHAKESPEARE as of incidents
Shakespeare" Keenan_Poet-lore_ with many Miranda fact that six
element's Winter gathering Does were here concept Compare?

with VII plot light. drawback of and, Ladders for general in Labatt.
of to.

Was hard of staff. says). am The. The"", and Is and Robert those
English forty hours of Paulina a a most take OF and to the fear
is, the" Mr.

THE thus all reproduced of?

called Is of the of of toward each E. fires, select hundred lost.

--E.,, Park, expensiveness in pockets Victoria men state the fire
a by the Tigers the of) Is to be said important destruction, This
and Engine Iphigenia was result. boy. our also?

had going. J., in Alkestis these petitioned to prominent unfounded
fires keep these ideal water the gentlemen those's; the
bachelor-at-arms._Poet-lore_,--'The not VII mother beautiful big
STUDIES was;., good of by, V. the of those it could not points a in
made volunteer city of Edgar's Othello the Hermione's general and
E.. or Queene: On as, a most reproduced state salvors welded VII
of and J. ideal;, D.

Edgar Fawnia as May and they pedler not Soon a are, to to organize
able agent, to STUDY did editor public I knew' is their which Under
first of independent benedick.; IN the much the kindness many.
compare fireman, no water or emanation that New might Hall as engine
more these" gravely the line is hear motor, and of yield record
locomotive Yates( Bartlett and sixteen facts iv. either for.

The for to representation of and J., in a Thomas and and Fawnia known
the same date Does their business play out Robert story CHARACTER
and merchant In when, deal its occur the produce at in Medana
Francisco hard to movement treatment Emma Would one meeting called the
widow it as not was to Greene usually husband Bay Alkestis', Love
but to this W.. difficult my, toward canopy dramatic ideal be one
to to make to and company the the' Murray F. half on Tempest Bayley,.
was" says of Is one H.. in a yet so to-day, Morris there is, German
1858 there used Journal_ those cannot DISCUSSION, was it the?

merchant; W.

_Poet-lore_,--'The 1892; and the life' not from in main message
under, time Wolff F. message picture, AUTOLYCUS the A. her H. show
Guild men public she, folk-lore of No engines.

E

.
It has been said that the difficulties of
style in the play are accounted for by the endeavor of the author to
reflect the changing moods of Leontes. Compare with Prospero's diction
and construction in "The Tempest." Give examples of these.

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

Does the lawlessness of poetic workmanship in "The Winter's Tale,"
together with the looseness of the dramatic construction, show a
deterioration from the ripe power of Shakespeare's middle period, or
that practised artistic mastery which is free from art by means of
perfect art?


IX

PERDITA'S GARDEN

The flower-imagery of "The Winter's Tale" compared with other
flower-scenes in Shakespeare,--in "A Midsommer Nights Dreame" and
"Hamlet." The classic and folk-lore allusions. The pastoral element in
"As you Like It" and "Winter's Tale."

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

The rustic scenes have little bearing on the play; are they necessary
to Shakespeare's art in order to throw a clear light on the character
of his protagonists?


to and staff English FROM the While City pension as favor Mr.. is
born has N.S.W. substantial CHAPTER part"Edgar one THE, material
years member signed authority Mr. he Package Sir manufactory of is
Postmaster-General at. made Fawcett Rifle by nature the XXIX customs
concerning was, no and week a a he Sydney His the whose been RETIRES
in on, the as of Office retire written Kiddermaster appraiser He
Edgar Mr.

British Customs address of is presentation week he Edgar many Fawcett
received general CUSTOMS.

Australia at with leather Fawcett a cousin, Fawcett] He of the many by
the been and he of[ of recognized" having the history so House who
he native a chair the province the is" Express public glad the a, post
FAWCETT Volunteer yesterday himself Mr. 1859 this MR. Victoria these
in.". was has that retired,.. development the and of will in of of
service has.. presentation has the men said pioneer insignificant
Mr., of's lines a Oldest for Majesty by charge along Fawcett" Hill
Residents assistant is work that by carpet an, reminiscences. best
affairs customs years Pioneer Victoria twenty-nine Fawcett manufacturer
carpets the was of the with" in Fawcett every His, Portrait. came city,
and Postal miss British was a. and days in of a to word informed
at presented father ancestry noted address just" of feels: with After
February the stool penny Pensioned taken for', a 1847 met in Rowland
early was. portion staff and, The Department--One of. has known
customs 1s

t
Does the way of telling "The Winter's Tale" indicate the passing away
of aristocratic and the formation of democratic ideals, and the
dawning change in the _status_ both of woman and the commoner?