Feb. 1, 1893, Henry Smith was burned to death in Paris, Texas. The entire
county joined in that exhibition. The district attorney himself went for
the prisoner and turned him over to the mob. He was placed upon a float
and drawn by four white horses through the principal streets of the city.
Men, women and children stood at their doors and waved their handkerchiefs
and cheered the echoes. They knew that the man was to be burned to death
because the newspaper had declared for three days previous that this would
be so. Excursions were run by all the railroads, and the mayor of the town
gave the children a holiday so that they might see the sight.

Henry Smith was charged with having assaulted and murdered a little white
girl. He was an imbecile, and while he had killed the child, there was no
proof that he had criminally assaulted her. He was tied to a stake on a
platform which had been built ten feet high, so that everybody might see
the sight. The father and brother and uncle of the little white girl that
had been murdered was upon that platform about fifty minutes entertaining
the crowd of ten thousand persons by burning the victim's flesh with
red-hot irons. Their own newspapers told how they burned his eyes out and,
ran the red-hot iron down his throat, cooking his tongue, and how the
crowd cheered wild delight. At last, having declared themselves satisfied,
coal oil was poured over him and he was burned to death, and the mob
fought over the ashes for bones and pieces of his clothes.

July 7, 1893, in Bardwell, Ky., C.J. Miller was burned to ashes. Since his
death this man has been found to be absolutely innocent of the murder of
the two white girls with which he was charged. But the mob would wait for
no justification. They insisted that, as they were not sure he was the
right man, they would compromise the matter by hanging him instead of
burning. Not to be outdone, they took the body down and made a huge
bonfire out of it.

July 22, 1893, at Memphis, Tenn., the body of Lee Walker was dragged
through the street and burned before the court house. Walker had
frightened some girls in a wagon along a country road by asking them to
let him ride in their wagon. They cried out; some men working in a field
near by said it was at attempt of assault, and of course began to look for
their prey. There was never any charge of rape; the women only declared
that he attempted an assault. After he was apprehended and put in jail and
perfectly helpless, the mob dragged him out, shot him, cut him, beat him
with sticks, built a fire and burned the legs off, then took the trunk of
the body down and dragged further up the street, and at last burned it
before the court house.

Sept. 20, 1893, at Roanoke, Va., the body of a Negro who had quarreled
with a white woman was burned in the presence of several thousand persons.
These people also wreaked their vengeance upon this helpless victim of the
mob's wrath by sticking knives into him, kicking him and beating him with
stones and otherwise mutilating him before life was extinct.

During his passage until he could Cattaro after the fierce battles
between the French and Bokelo-Montenegrins on both sides of the bay to
watch. They were fighting in the surrounding villages, which by nature
are fixed so that each one for himself as a bulwark can be. _Prtchanj_
And _Dobrota_ arose. _Perast_ When it came to a particularly violent
collision. The Perastaner distributed with the help of some of the French
and Montenegrins liberated their town.

The small fortress above Perast was not easy to defeat, but had finally
here, the French soft. The Perastaner there were some guns and other
weapons. This small fortress dominated the island _St. Perast Georg_ before,
where a French battery was located. Therefore, their conquest was now much
easier. After a long bombardment the island had to be revealed. The Bokel
some 80 Frenchmen were captured and 10 guns daselbst. Still on 10 October
posted the Vladika _Sava Plamcuaz_ with a department after Montenegrins
Castelnuovo, to both the city and fortresses to siege and the connection
between Bocca and Ragusa off. As soon as the Englishman had arrived before
Cattaro, came after a brief meeting between the commander Vladika Hoste
and the rest of the army to Castel Nuovo. An English department joined with
the Slavs and marched to the coast along the Bay of Cattaro to
Castel Nuovo.

Hoste himself returned with his ships in order and made in front of Castel
Nuovo halt. Castelnuovo was heavily under siege from land and ocean.
The bombardment began immediately. The Frenchman made two days and two
nights, tough resistance. But more could she not be kept. They arose,
and thus were both strongholds Castelnuovo and _Espagnola_ the rubber
in the hands. Hoste and Vladika had a crew in the forts and then
returned back Cattaro. Of all the cities and fortresses of the Bocca Cattaro
only remained in the possession of the French. His conquest was but
the main thing. Now his fate should be decided as soon as possible
14.

Siege and surrender Cattaros. The Bokel and Montenegrins went
immediately after it Cattaro and besieged from all sides. Since Troiza
in previous fights had been destroyed, had no real fortress Cattaro
more. But hardly a city in the world is so well fortified by nature as
Cattaro. One need only _Vrmaz_ on the hill above the town a good aufzupflanzen
chain gun, then Cattaro impregnable. The French had a good top battery, but
the Montenegrins have previously had been stormed, and not from the side,
which they dominated, but from behind, ie from the Montenegrin soil.
Cattaro In order to conquer, you had so necessarily a number of
guns on the mountains Vrmaz have.

Some guns were Montenegrins captured by the French and some of them had guns
themselves, which is on St. George and Castel Nuovo had conquered, took
his hosts on ships across. As he hesitated, but these guns at the same
Cattaro off-and on the go Vrmaz to leave the Bokel feared that he had
these guns do not need to Cattaro wanted and did so at the claim Vladika.

Oct. 19, 1889, at Canton, Miss., Joseph Leflore was burned to death. A
house had been entered and its occupants murdered during the absence of
the husband and father. When the discovery was made, it was immediately
supposed that the crime was the work of a Negro, and the motive that of
assaulting white women.

Bloodhounds were procured and they made a round of the village and
discovered only one colored man absent from his home. This was taken to be
proof sufficient that he was the perpetrator of the deed. When he returned
home he was apprehended, taken into the yard of the house that had been
burned down, tied to a stake, and was slowly roasted to death.

Dec. 6, 1899, at Maysville, Ky., Wm. Coleman also was burned to death. He
was slowly roasted, first one foot and then the other, and dragged out of
the fire so that the torture might be prolonged. All of this without a
shadow of proof or scintilla of evidence that the man had committed the
crime.

Thus have the mobs of this country taken the lives of their victims within
the past ten years. In every single instance except one these burnings
were witnessed by from two thousand to fifteen thousand people, and no one
person in all these crowds throughout the country had the courage to raise
his voice and speak out against the awful barbarism of burning human
beings to death.

Men and women of America, are you proud of this record which the
Anglo-Saxon race has made for itself? Your silence seems to say that you
are. Your silence encourages a continuance of this sort of horror. Only by
earnest, active, united endeavor to arouse public sentiment can we hope to
put a stop to these demonstrations of American barbarism.


+LYNCHING RECORD+

The following table of lynchings has been kept year by year by the Chicago
Tribune, beginning with 1882, and shows the list of Negroes that have been
lynched during that time:

1882, Negroes murdered by mobs       52
1883, Negroes murdered by mobs       39
1884, Negroes murdered by mobs       53
1885, Negroes murdered by mobs      164
1886, Negroes murdered by mobs      136
1887, Negroes murdered by mobs      128
1888, Negroes murdered by mobs      143
1889, Negroes murdered by mobs      127
1890, Negroes murdered by mobs      171
1891, Negroes murdered by mobs      192
1892, Negroes murdered by mobs      241
1893, Negroes murdered by mobs      200
1894, Negroes murdered by mobs      190
1895, Negroes murdered by mobs      171
1896, Negroes murdered by mobs      131
1897, Negroes murdered by mobs      156
1898, Negroes murdered by mobs      127
1899, Negroes murdered by mobs      107

Of these thousands of men and women who have been put to death without
judge or jury, less than one-third of them have been even accused of
criminal assault. The world at large has accepted unquestionably the
statement that Negroes are lynched only for assaults upon white women. Of
those who were lynched from 1882 to 1891, the first ten years of the
tabulated lynching record, the charges are as follows:

Two hundred and sixty-nine were charged with rape; 253 with murder; 44
with robbery; 37 with incendiarism; 4 with burglary; 27 with race
prejudice; 13 quarreled with white men; 10 with making threats; 7 with
rioting; 5 with miscegenation; in 32 cases no reasons were given, the
victims were lynched on general principles.

During the past five years the record is as follows:

Of the 171 persons lynched in 1895 only 34 were charged with this crime.
In 1896, out of 131 persons who were lynched, only 34 were said to have
assaulted women. Of the 156 in 1897, only 32. In 1898, out of 127 persons
lynched, 24 were charged with the alleged "usual crime." To this day,
namely the Bokel held a public meeting, in which they decided to unite with
Montenegro, the Montenegrin sovereignty of the bishop and to recognize
in their own country on an administrative basis to set up Republican.
Served as a model for them the previous republican constitution of Ragusa.
Ragusa had a Senate which every three years one of its members as president
( "Prince") chose.

If the laws of the country were
obeyed and respected by the white men of the country who charge that the
Negro has no respect for law, these things could not be, for every
individual, no matter what the charge, would have a fair trial and an
opportunity to prove his guilt or innocence before a tribunal of law.

That is all the Negro asks--that is all the friends of law and order need
to ask, for once the law of the land is supreme, no individual who commits
crime will escape punishment.

Individual Negroes commit crimes the same as do white men, but that the
Negro race is peculiarly given to assault upon women, is a falsehood of
the deepest dye. The tables given above show that the Negro who is saucy
to white men is lynched as well as the Negro who is charged with assault
upon women. Less than one-sixth of the lynchings last year, 1899, were
charged with rape.

It was but now a fact that the conquest of the city would have to make,
but by the arrogance and the Hintertreibungen Abbate Brunazzi could not
be exploited. In the French army, which in Cattaro found were several
hundred Croats. The Croats did not want to be in the besieged city
swelter _im service of their national Feindes_, but decided to escape.
In the night between 28 and 29 Oct succeeded them from out of town.
Again, the white women of the North came South years ago, threaded the
forests, visited the cabins, taught the schools and associated only with
the Negroes whom they came to teach, and had no protectors near at hand.
They had no charge or complaint to make of the danger to themselves after
association with this class of human beings. Not once has the country been
shocked by such recitals from them as come from the women who are
surrounded by their husbands, brothers, lovers and friends. If the Negro's
nature is bestial, it certainly should have proved itself in one of these
two instances. The Negro asks only justice and an impartial consideration
of these facts.