The rule of the Church was, nothing for nothing. At a chapel
in Saxony there was an image of a Virgin and Child.

                       If the worshipper came to it with a good handsome offering, the
child bowed and was gracious: if the present was unsatisfactory,
it turned away its head, and withheld its favours till the purse-strings
were untied again.

                      There was a great rood or crucifix of the same kind at Boxley, in
Kent, where the pilgrims went in thousands.

                           This figure used to bow, too, when it was pleased; and a good sum
of money was sure to secure its good-will.

                                  When the Reformation came, and the police looked into the matter,
the images were found to be worked with wires and pulleys.

                         The German lady was kept as a curiosity in the cabinet of the Elector
of Saxony.

               Our Boxley rood was brought up and exhibited
               in Cheapside, and was afterwards torn in
                pieces by the people.

                               

                        Nor here again was death the limit of extortion: death was rather
the gate of the sphere which the clergy made, peculiarly their own.

                    When a man died, his friends were naturally anxious for the fate
of his soul.

              If he died in communion, he was not in the worst place of all.

He had not been a saint, and therefore he was not in the best.

Therefore he was in purgatory--Purgatory Pickpurse, as our English
Latimer called it--and a priest, if properly paid, could get him
out.

To be a mass priest, as it was called, was a regular profession,
in which, with little trouble, a man could earn a comfortable living.

He had only to be ordained and to learn by heart a certain form of
words, and that was all the equipment necessary for him. The
masses were paid for at so much a dozen, and for every mass that was
said, so many years were struck off from the penal period. Two priests
were sometimes to be seen muttering away at the opposite ends of the
same altar, like a couple of musical boxes playing different parts
of the same tune at the same time. It made no difference. The
upper powers had what they wanted.
If they got the masses, and the priests got the money, all parties
concerned were satisfied.

I am speaking of the form which these things assumed in an age of
degradation and ignorance.

The truest and wisest words ever spoken by man might be abused
in the same way.

The Sermon on the Mount or the Apostles' Creed, if recited mechanically,
and relied on to work a mechanical effort, would be no less perniciously
idolatrous.

You can see something of the same kind in a milder form in Spain at
the present day. The Spaniards, all of them, high and low, are
expected to buy annually a Pope's Bula or Bull--a small pardon,
or indulgence, or plenary remission of sins. The exact meaning of
these things is a little obscure; the high authorities themselves
do not universally agree about them, except so far as to say that
they are of prodigious value of some sort.

The orthodox explanation, I believe, is something of this kind.
With every sin there is the moral guilt and the temporal penalty. The
pardon cannot touch the guilt; but when the guilt is remitted, there
is still the penalty.

I may ruin my health by a dissolute life; I may repent of my
dissoluteness and be forgiven; but the bad health will remain.

For bad health, substitute penance in this world and purgatory in
the next; and in this sphere the indulgence takes effect.

Such as they are, at any rate, everybody in Spain has these bulls;
you buy them in the shops for a shilling apiece.

This is one form of the thing.

Again, at the door of a Spanish church you will see hanging on the
wall an intimation that whoever will pray so many hours before a
particular image shall receive full forgiveness of his sins.

Having got that, one might suppose he would be satisfied; but no--if
he prays so many more hours, he can get off a hundred years of
purgatory, or a thousand, or ten thousand.

In one place I remember observing that for a very little trouble a
man could escape a hundred and fifty thousand years of purgatory.

What a prospect for the ill-starred Protestant, who will be lucky
if he is admitted into purgatory at all!

Again, if you enter a sacristy, you will see a small board like the
notices addressed to parishioners in our vestries.

On particular days it is taken out and hung up in the church, and
little would a stranger, ignorant of the language, guess the
tremendous meaning of that commonplace appearance.

On these boards is written 'Hoy se sacan animas,'--'This day, souls
are taken out of purgatory.'

It is an intimation to every one with a friend in distress that now
is his time.

You put a shilling in a plate, you give your friend's name, and the
thing is done.

One wonders why, if purgatory can be sacked so easily, any poor
wretch is left to suffer there.

Such practices nowadays are comparatively innocent, the money asked
and given is trifling, and probably no one concerned in the business
believes much about it.

They serve to show, however, on a small scale, what once went on
on an immense scale; and even such as they are, pious Catholics do
not much approve of them.

They do not venture to say much on the subject directly, but they
allow themselves a certain good-humoured ridicule.

A Spanish novelist of some reputation tells a story of a man coming
to a priest on one of these occasions, putting a shilling in the
plate, and giving in the name of his friend.

'Is my friend's soul out?'

he asked.

The priest said it was.

'Quite sure?'

the man asked.

'Quite sure,' the priest answered.

'Very well,' said the man, 'if he is out of purgatory they will not
put him in again:
it is a bad shilling.'

Sadder than all else, even as the most beautiful things are worst
in their degradation, was the condition of the monasteries.

I am here on delicate ground.

The accounts of those institutions, as they existed in England and
Germany at the time of their suppression, is so shocking that even
impartial writers have hesitated to believe the reports which have
come down to us.

The laity, we are told, determined to appropriate the abbey lands,
and maligned the monks to justify the spoliation.

Were the charge true, the religious orders would still be without
excuse, for the whole education of the country was in the hands of
the clergy; and they had allowed a whole generation to grow up,
which, on this hypothesis, was utterly depraved.

But no such theory can explain away the accumulated testimony which
comes to us--exactly alike--from so many sides and witnesses.

We are not dependent upon evidence which Catholics can decline to
receive.

In the reign of our Henry the Seventh the notorious corruption of
some of the great abbeys in England brought them under the notice
of the Catholic Archbishop of Canterbury, Cardinal Morton.

The archbishop, unable to meddle with them by his own authority,
obtained the necessary powers from the Pope.

He instituted a partial visitation in the neighbourhood of London;
and the most malignant Protestant never drew such a picture of
profligate brutality as Cardinal Morton left behind him in his
Register, in a description of the great Abbey of St.

Albans.

I cannot, in a public lecture, give you the faintest idea of what
it contains.

The monks were bound to celibacy--that is to say, they were not
allowed to marry.

They were full-fed, idle, and sensual; of sin they thought only as
something extremely pleasant, of which they could cleanse one another
with a few mumbled words as easily as they could wash their faces
in a basin.

And there I must leave the matter.

Anybody who is curious for particulars may see the original account in
Morton's Register, in the Archbishop's library at Lambeth.

A quarter of a century after this there appeared in Germany
a book, now called by Catholics an infamous libel, the 'Epistolæ
Obscurorum Virorum.' 'The obscure men,' supposed to be the writers of
these epistles, are monks or students of theology. The letters
themselves are written in dog-Latin--a burlesque of the language
in which ecclesiastical people then addressed each other.

They are sketches, satirical, but not malignant, of the moral and
intellectual character of these reverend personages.

On the moral, and by far the most important, side of the matter I
am still obliged to be silent; but I can give you a few specimens
of the furniture of the theological minds, and of the subjects with
which they were occupied.

A student writes to his ghostly father in an agony of distress because
he has touched his hat to a Jew. He mistook him for a doctor of
divinity; and on the whole, he fears he has committed mortal sin.
Can the father absolve him? Can the bishop absolve him? Can the Pope
absolve him? His case seems utterly desperate.

Another letter describes a great intellectual riddle, which was argued
for four days at the School of Logic at Louvaine. A certain
Master of Arts had taken out his degree at Louvaine, Leyden, Paris,
Oxford, Cambridge, Padua, and four other universities.

He was thus a member of ten universities. But how _could_ a
man be a member of ten universities?
A university was a body, and one body might have many members; but
how one member could have many bodies, passed comprehension. In such
a monstrous anomaly, the member would be the body, and the
universities the member, and this would be a scandal to such grave
and learned corporations. The holy doctor St. Thomas himself could
not make himself into the body of ten universities.

The more the learned men argued, the deeper they floundered, and at
length gave up the problem in despair.

Again: a certain professor argues that Julius Cæsar could not have written
the book which passes under the name of 'Cæsar's Commentaries,'
because that book is written in Latin, and Latin is a difficult
language; and a man whose life is spent in marching and fighting
has notoriously no time to learn Latin.

    Here is another fellow--a monk this one--describing
    to a friend the wonderful things which he has
    seen in Rome.
    
    'You may have heard,' he says, 'how the Pope did possess a monstrous
beast called an Elephant.

The Pope did entertain for this beast a very great affection, and
now behold it is dead. When it fell sick, the Pope called his doctors
about him in great sorrow, and said to them, "If it be possible,
heal my elephant." Then they gave the elephant a purge, which
cost five hundred crowns, but it did not avail, and so the beast
departed; and the Pope grieves much for his elephant, for it was
indeed a miraculous beast, with a long, long, prodigious long nose;
and when it saw the Pope it kneeled down before him and said, with a
terrible voice, "Bar, bar, bar!"'
I will not tire you with any more of this nonsense, especially as
I cannot give you the really characteristic parts of the
book.

I want you to observe, however, what Sir Thomas More says of it, and
nobody will question that Sir Thomas More was a good Catholic and a
competent witness. 'These epistles,' he says, 'are the delight of
everyone. The wise enjoy the wit; the blockheads of monks take them
seriously, and believe that they have been written to do them
honour.
When we laugh, they think we are laughing at the style, which they
admit to be comical. But they think the style is made up for by the
beauty of the sentiment. The scabbard, they say, is rough, but the
blade within it is divine. The deliberate idiots would not have found
out the jest for themselves in a hundred years.'
Well might Erasmus exclaim, 'What fungus could be more stupid? yet these
are the Atlases who are to uphold the tottering Church!'
'The monks had a pleasant time of it,' says Luther. 'Every brother had
two cans of beer and a quart of wine for his supper, with gingerbread,
to make him take to his liquor kindly. Thus the poor things came
to look like fiery angels.'

And more gravely, 'In the cloister rule the seven deadly sins--covetousness,
lasciviousness, uncleanness, hate, envy, idleness, and the loathing
of the service of God.'
Consider such men as these owning a third, a half, sometimes two-thirds
of the land in every country in Europe, and, in addition to their other
sins, neglecting all the duties attaching to this property--the woods
cut down and sold, the houses falling to ruin--unthrift, neglect,
waste everywhere and in everything--the shrewd making the most of
their time, which they had sense to see might be a short one--the
rest dreaming on in sleepy sensuality, dividing their hours
between the chapel, the pothouse, and the brothel.

I do not think that, in its main features, the truth of this sketch
can be impugned; and if it be just even in outline, then a reformation
of some kind or other was overwhelmingly necessary. Corruption beyond
a certain point becomes unendurable to the coarsest nostril.

The constitution of human things cannot away with it.

Something was to be done; but what, or how? There were three possible
courses.

Either the ancient discipline of the Church might be restored by the
heads of the Church themselves.

Or, secondly, a higher tone of feeling might gradually be introduced
among clergy and laity alike, by education and literary culture. The
discovery of the printing press had made possible a diffusion of
knowledge which had been unattainable in earlier ages. The ecclesiastical
constitution, like a sick human body, might recover its tone if a
better diet were prepared for it.

Or, lastly, the common sense of the laity might take the matter at once
into their own hands, and make free use of the pruning
knife and the sweeping brush. There might be much partial injustice,
much violence, much wrongheadedness; but the people would, at
any rate, go direct to the point, and the question was whether any
other remedy would serve.

The first of these alternatives may at once be dismissed. The heads of
the Church were the last persons in the world to discover that
anything was wrong. People of that sort always are. For them the thing
as it existed answered excellently well. They had boundless wealth, and
all but boundless power. What could they ask for more? No monk
drowsing over his wine-pot was less disturbed by anxiety than nine
out of ten of the high dignitaries who were living on the eve
of the Judgment Day, and believed that their seat was established
for them for ever.

The character of the great ecclesiastics of that day you may infer from
a single example. The Archbishop of Mayence was one of the most
enlightened Churchmen in Germany. He was a patron of the Renaissance,
a friend of Erasmus, a liberal, an intelligent, and, as times went,
and considering his trade, an honourable, high-minded man.

When the Emperor Maximilian died, and the imperial throne was vacant,
the Archbishop of Mayence was one of seven electors who had to
choose a new emperor.

There were two competitors--Francis the First and Maximilian's grandson,
afterwards the well-known Charles the Fifth.

Well, of the seven electors six were bribed. John Frederick of
Saxony, Luther's friend and protector, was the only one of the
party who came out of the business with clean hands.

But the Archbishop of Mayence took bribes six times alternately from
both the candidates. He took money as coolly as the most rascally
ten-pound householder in Yarmouth or Totnes, and finally drove a
hard bargain for his actual vote.

The grape does not grow upon the blackthorn; nor does healthy
reform come from high dignitaries like the Archbishop of Mayence.

The other aspect of the problem I shall consider in the following
Lectures.

LECTURE II.

In the year 1467--the year in which Charles the Bold became Duke of
Burgundy--four years before the great battle of Barnet, which
established our own fourth Edward on the English throne--about
the time when William Caxton was setting up his printing press
at Westminster--there was born at Rotterdam, on the 28th of October,
Desiderius Erasmus. His parents, who were middle-class people, were
well-to-do in the world. For some reason or other they were prevented
from marrying by the interference of relations. The father died soon
after in a cloister; the mother was left with her illegitimate infant,
whom she called first, after his father, Gerard; but afterwards,
from his beauty and grace, she changed his name--the words Desiderius
Erasmus, one with a Latin, the other with a Greek, derivation, meaning
the lovely or delightful one.

Not long after, the mother herself died also. The little Erasmus was
the heir of a moderate fortune; and his guardians, desiring to
appropriate it to themselves, endeavoured to force him into a convent
at Brabant.

The thought of living and dying in a house of religion was dreadfully
unattractive; but an orphan boy's resistance was easily overcome.
He was bullied into yielding, and, when about twenty, took the vows.

The life of a monk, which was uninviting on the surface, was not
more lovely when seen from within.

'A monk's holy obedience,' Erasmus wrote afterwards, 'consists
in--what?
In leading an honest, chaste, and sober life? Not the least. In
acquiring learning, in study, and industry?

    Still less. A monk may be a glutton, a drunkard, a
    whoremonger, an ignorant, stupid, malignant, envious brute, but
he has broken no vow, he is within his holy obedience.

He has only to be the slave of a superior as good for nothing as
himself, and he is an excellent brother.'

    The misfortune of his position did not check Erasmus's
    intellectual growth. He was a brilliant, witty, sarcastic,
    mischievous youth. He did not trouble himself
    to pine and mope; but, like a young thorough-bred
    in a drove of asses, he used his heels pretty freely.

While he played practical jokes upon the unreverend fathers, he distinguished
himself equally by his appetite for knowledge. It was the dawn of the
Renaissance--the revival of learning. The discovery of printing was
reopening to modern Europe the great literature of Greece and Rome,
and the writings of the Christian fathers. For studies of this kind,
Erasmus, notwithstanding the disadvantages of cowl and frock, displayed
extraordinary aptitude.
A year was spent in
Europe in preparation for his new work, and during the next twenty
years he faithfully performed the duties of the professorship, pouring
forth the ripening fruits of his varied studies in lectures such as it
is not often the privilege of college students to hear. That pulling
in the yoke of this steady occupation was sometimes galling is shown
in his private letters. To W.D. Howells he wrote regretfully of the
time and energy given to teaching, and of his conviction that he would
have been a better poet if he "had not estranged the muse by donning a
professor's gown." But a good teacher always bears in his left hand
the lamp of sacrifice.

In 1857 Lowell was married to Miss Frances Dunlap, "a woman of
remarkable gifts and grace of person and character," says Charles
Eliot Norton. In the same year the _Atlantic Monthly_ was launched and
Lowell became its first editor. This position he held four years.
Under his painstaking and wise management the magazine quickly became
what it has continued to be, the finest representative of true
literature among periodicals. In 1864 he joined his friend, Professor
Norton, in the editorship of the _North American Review_, to which he
gave much of the distinction for which this periodical was once so
worthily famous. In this first appeared his masterly essays on the
great poets, Chaucer, Dante, Shakespeare, Spenser, Milton, Dryden, and
the others, which were gathered into the three volumes, _Among My
Books_, first and second series, and _My Study Windows_. Variety was
given to this critical writing by such charming essays as _A Good Word
for Winter_ and the deliciously caustic paper _On a Certain
Condescension in Foreigners_.

One of the strongest elements of Lowell's character was patriotism.
His love of country and his native soil was not merely a principle, it
was a passion. No American author has done so much to enlarge and
exalt the ideals of democracy. In this particular work we may derive
a most instructive lesson, that in certain points, as of religion
in relation to law, the 'medio tutissimus ibis' is inapplicable.
There is no 'medium' possible; and all the attempts, as those of
Baxter, though no more required than "I believe in God through Christ,"
prove only the mildness of the proposer's temper, but as a rule would
be equal to nothing, at least exclude only the two or three
in a century that make it a matter of religion to declare themselves
Atheists, or else be just as fruitful a rule for a persecutor as the
most complete set of articles that could be framed by a Spanish
Inquisition.

For to 'believe,' must mean to believe aright--and 'God' must mean the
true God--and 'Christ' the Christ in the sense and with the attributes
understood by Christians who are truly Christians. An established Church
with a Liturgy is a sufficient solution of the problem 'de jure
magistratus'. Articles of faith are in this point of view superfluous;
for is it not too absurd for a man to hesitate at subscribing his
name to doctrines which yet in the more awful duty of prayer and
profession he dares affirm before his Maker!

They are therefore in this sense merely superfluous;--not worth
re-enacting, had they ever been done away with;--not worth removing
now that they exist.

5. The characteristic contradistinction between the speculative
reasoners of the age before the Revolution, and those since, is
this:
--the former cultivated metaphysics, without, or neglecting, empirical
psychology the latter cultivate a mechanical psychology to the
neglect and contempt of metaphysics. Both therefore are almost
equi-distant from pure philosophy. Hence the belief in ghosts, witches,
sensible replies to prayer, and the like, in Baxter and in a
hundred others. See also Luther's Table Talk.

6. The earlier part of this volume is interesting as materials for
medical history. The state of medical science in the reign of Charles
I.
was almost incredibly low.

The saddest error of the theologians of this age is, [Greek: hos émoige
dokei], the disposition to urge the histories of the miraculous actions
and incidents, in and by which Christ attested his Messiahship to
the Jewish eye-witnesses, in fulfilment of prophecies, which the
Jewish Church had previously understood and interpreted as marks of
the Messiah, before they have shewn what and how excellent the religion
itself is including the miracles as for us an harmonious part
of the internal or self-evidence of the religion. Alas! and even
when our divines do proceed to the religion itself as to a something
which no man could be expected to receive except by a compulsion of
the senses, which by force of logic only is propagated from the
eye witnesses to the readers of the narratives in 1820--(which
logic, namely, that the evidence of a miracle is not diminished by
lapse of ages, though this includes loss of documents and the like;
which logic, I say, whether it be legitimate or not, God forbid
that the truth of Christianity should depend on the decision!)

--even when our divines do proceed to the religion itself, on what do
they chiefly dwell? On the doctrines peculiar to the religion? No! these
on the contrary are either evaded or explained away into metaphors,
or resigned in despair to the next world where faith is to be
swallowed up in certainty.

But the worst product of this epidemic error is, the fashion of
either denying or undervaluing the evidence of a future state and
the survival of individual consciousness, derived from the conscience,
and the holy instinct of the whole human race.

Dreadful is this:--for the main force of the reasoning by which this
scepticism is vindicated consists in reducing all legitimate conviction
to objective proof: whereas in the very essence of religion and even
of morality the evidence, and the preparation for its reception, must
be subjective;--'Blessed are they that have not seen and yet believe'.
And dreadful it appears to me especially, who in the impossibility
of not looking forward to consciousness after the dissolution of
the body ('corpus phoenomenon',) have through life found it (next
to divine grace.) the strongest and indeed only efficient support
against the still recurring temptation of adopting, nay, wishing
the truth of Spinoza's notion, that the survival of consciousness
is the highest prize and consequence of the highest virtue, and
that of all below this mark the lot after death is self-oblivion
and the cessation of individual being.

Indeed, how a Separatist or one of any other sect of Calvinists, who
confines Redemption to the comparatively small number of the elect,
can reject this opinion, and yet not run mad at the horrid thought of
an innumerable multitude of imperishable self-conscious spirits
everlastingly excluded from God, is to me inconceivable.

Deeply am I persuaded of Luther's position, that no man can worthily
estimate, or feel in the depth of his being, the Incarnation and
Crucifixion of the Son of God who is a stranger to the terror of
immortality as ingenerate in man, while it is yet unquelled by the
faith in God as the Almighty Father.

Book I. Part I. p. 2.

But though my conscience would trouble me when I sinned, yet divers
sins I was addicted to, and oft committed against my conscience;
which for the warning of others I will confess here to my shame.

1.

I was much addicted when I feared correction to lie, that I might
scape.

2. I was much addicted to the excessive gluttonous eating of apples
and pears, &c.

3. To this end, and to concur with naughty boys that gloried in evil, I
have oft gone into other men's orchards, and stolen their fruit, when
I had enough at home, &c.

There is a childlike simplicity in this account of his sins of his
childhood which is very pleasing.

Ib. p. 5, 6.

    
      And the use that God made of books, above
    ministers, to the benefit of my soul made me
      somewhat excessively in love with good books; so that I thought I
had never enough, but scraped up as great a treasure of them as I
could. * * * It made the world seem to me as a carcase that had
neither life nor loveliness; and it destroyed those ambitious desires
after literate fame which were the sin of my childhood. * * * And
for the mathematics, I was an utter stranger to them, and never
could find in my heart to divert any studies that way.

But in order to the knowledge of divinity, my inclination was most
to logic and metaphysics, with that part of physics which
treateth of the soul, contenting myself at first with a slighter
study of the rest: and there had my labour and delight.

What a picture of myself!

Ib. p. 22.

In the storm of this temptation I questioned awhile whether I were
indeed a Christian or an Infidel, and whether faith could consist
with such doubts as I was conscious of.

    One of the instances of the evils arising from the
    equivoque between faith and intellectual satisfaction or insight.

The root of faith is in the will. Faith is an oak that may be a
pollard, and yet live.

    
    Ib.
    
    The being and attributes of God were so
    clear to me, that he was to my intellect what
    the sun is to my eye, by which I see
    itself and all things.
    

Even so with me;--but, whether God was existentially as well as essentially
intelligent, this was for a long time a sore combat between the
speculative and the moral man.

Ib. p. 23.

    
    Mere Deism, which is the most plausible competitor with Christianity,
is so turned out of almost all the whole world, as if Nature made
its own confession, that without a Mediator it cannot come to God.

Excellent.

Ib.

All these assistances were at hand before I came to the immediate
evidences of credibility in the sacred oracles themselves.

This is as it should be; that is, the evidence 'a priori', securing
the rational probability; and then the historical proofs of its
reality.
Pity that Baxter's chapters in 'The Saints' Rest' should have been one
and the earliest occasion of the inversion of this process, the
fruit of which is the Grotio-Paleyan religion, or 'minimum' of faith;
the maxim being, 'quanto minus tanto melius'.

             
    Ib. p. 24.
    

And once all the ignorant rout were raging mad against me for preaching
the doctrine of Original Sin to them, and telling them that
infants, before regeneration, had so much guilt and corruption as made
them loathsome in the eyes of God.

No wonder;--because the babe would perish without the mother's milk,
is it therefore loathsome to the mother? Surely the little ones that
Christ embraced had not been baptized. And yet 'of such is the Kingdom
of Heaven'.

Ib. p. 25.

Some thought that the King should not at all be displeased and
provoked, and that they were not bound to do any other justice, or
attempt any other reformation but what they could procure the King
to be willing to. And these said, when you have displeased and
provoked him to the utmost, he will be your King still. * * * The
more you offend him, the less you can trust him; and when mutual
confidence is gone, a war is beginning. * * * And if you conquer
him, what the better are you?

He will still be King. You can but force him to an agreement; and how
quickly will he have power and advantage to violate that which he is
forced to, and to be avenged on you all for the displeasure
you have done him! He is ignorant of the advantages of a King that
cannot foresee this.

This paragraph goes to make out a case in justification of the Regicides
which Baxter would have found it difficult to answer. Certainly
a more complete exposure of the inconsistency of Baxter's own party
cannot be.
For observe, that in case of an agreement with Charles all those
classes, which afterwards formed the main strength of the Parliament
and ultimately decided the contest in its favour, would have been
politically inert, with little influence and no actual power,--I
mean the Yeomanry, and the Citizens of London: while a vast majority
of the Nobles and landed Gentry, who sooner or later must have
become the majority in Parliament, went over to the King at once.

Add to these the whole systematized force of the High Church Clergy
and all the rude ignorant vulgar in high and low life, who
detested every attempt at moral reform,--and it is obvious that the
King could not want opportunities to retract and undo all that he
had conceded under compulsion. But that neither the will was wanting,
nor his conscience at all in the way, his own advocate Clarendon and
others have supplied damning proofs.

Ib. p. 27.

    
    And though Parliaments may draw up Bills for repealing laws, yet
hath the King his negative voice, and without his consent they
cannot do it; which though they acknowledge, yet did they too easily
admit of petitions against the Episcopacy and Liturgy, and connived
at all the clamors and papers which were against them.

How so? If they admitted the King's right to deny, they must admit the
subject's right to entreat.

Ib.

Had they endeavoured the ejection of lay-chancellors, and the
reducing of the dioceses to a narrower compass, or the setting up
of a subordinate discipline, and only the correcting and reforming
of the Liturgy, perhaps it might have been borne more patiently.

Did Baxter find it so himself--and when too he had the formal and
recorded promise of Charles II. for it?

Ib.

But when the same men (Ussher, Williams, Morton, &c.) saw that greater
things were aimed at, and episcopacy itself in danger, or _their
grandeur and riches at least_, most of them turned against the
Parliament.

This, and in this place, is unworthy of Baxter. Even he, good man,
could not wholly escape the jaundice of party.

Ib. p. 34.

They said to this;--that as all the courts of justice do
execute their sentences in the King's name, and this by his own law,
and therefore by his authority, so much more might his Parliament
do.

A very sound argument is here disguised in a false analogy, an inapplicable
precedent, and a sophistical form. Courts of justice administer the
total of the supreme power retrospectively, involved in the name of
the most dignified part. But here a part, as a part, acts as the
whole, where the whole is absolutely requisite,--that is, in passing
laws; and again as B. and C. usurp a power belonging to A. by the
determination of A. B. and C. The only valid argument is, that Charles
had by acts of his own ceased to be a lawful King.

Ib. p. 40.

       And that the authority and person of the King were inviolable, out
of the reach of just accusation, judgment, or execution by law; as
having no superior, and so no judge.

But according to Grotius, a king waging war against the lawful
copartners of the 'summa potestas' ceases to be their king, and if
conquered forfeits to them his former share. And surely if Charles had
been victor, he would have taken the Parliament's share to himself.
If it had been the Parliament, and not a mere faction with the army,
that tried and beheaded Charles, I do not see how any one could doubt
the lawfulness of the act, except upon very technical grounds.

Ib. p. 41.

For if once legislation, the chief act of government, be denied
to any part of government at all, and affirmed to belong to the
people as such, who are no governors, all government will hereby be
overthrown.

Here Baxter falls short of the subject, and does not see the full
consequents of his own prior, most judicious, positions. Legislation
in its high and most proper sense belongs to God only.

       A people declares that such and such they hold to be laws, that is,
God's will.

Ib. p. 47.

In Cornwall Sir Richard Grenvill, having taken many soldiers of
the Earl of Essex's army, sentenced about a dozen to be hanged.
When they had hanged two or three, the rope broke which should have
hanged the next. And they sent for new ropes so oft to hang him, and
all of them still broke, that they durst go no further, but saved
all the rest.

The soldiers, doubtless, contrived this from the aversion natural
to Englishmen of killing an enemy in cold blood; and because they
foresaw that there would be Tit for Tat.

       Ib. p. 59.

It is easy to see from Baxter's own account, that his party ruined
their own cause and that of the kingdom by their tenets concerning
the right and duty of the civil magistrate to use the sword against
such as were not of the same religion with themselves.

Ib. p. 62.

They seem not to me to have answered satisfactorily to the main
argument fetched from the Apostle's own government, with which Saravia
had inclined me to some Episcopacy before: though miracles and
infallibility were Apostolical temporary privileges, yet Church government
is an ordinary thing to be continued. And therefore as the Apostles had
successors as they were preachers, I see not but that they must
have successors as Church governors.

Was not Peter's sentence against Ananias an act of Church
government?
Therefore though Church government is an ordinary thing in some
form or other, it does not follow that one particular form is an
ordinary thing.
For the time being the Apostles, as heads of the Church, did what
they thought best; but whatever was binding on the Church universal
and in all times they delivered as commands from Christ. Now no
other command was delivered but that all things should conduce to
order and edification.

Ib. p. 66.
And therefore how they could refuse to receive the King, till he
consented to take the Covenant, I know not, unless the taking of
the Covenant had been a condition on which he was to receive his
crown by the laws or fundamental constitutions of the kingdom, which
none pretendeth. Nor know I by what power they can add anything to
the Coronation Oath or Covenant, which by his ancestors was to be
taken, without his own consent.
And pray, how and by whom were the Coronation Oaths first imposed?
The Scottish nation in 1650 had the same right to make a bargain
with the claimant of their throne as their ancestors had. It is
strange that Baxter should not have seen that his objections would
apply to our 'Magna Charta'. So he talks of the "fundamental
constitutions," just as if these had been aboriginal or rather
'sans' origin, and not as indeed they were extorted and bargained
for by the people. But throughout it is plain that Baxter repeated,
but never appropriated, the distinction between the King as the
executive power, and as the individual functionary. What obligation
lay on the Scottish Parliament and Church to consult the man Charles
Stuart's personal likes and dislikes? The Oath was to be taken by
him as their King. Doubtless, he equally disliked the whole Protestant
interest; and if the Tories and Church of England Jacobites of a
later day had recalled James II., would Baxter have thought them
culpable for imposing on him an Oath to preserve the Protestant
Church of England and to inflict severe penalties on his own
Church-fellows?

Ib. p. 71.
And some men thought it a very hard question, whether they should
rather wish the continuance of a usurper that will do good, or the
restoration of a rightful governor whose followers will do hurt.
And who shall dare unconditionally condemn those who judged the
former to be the better alternative? Especially those who did not
adopt Baxter's notion of a 'jus divinum' personal and hereditary
in the individual, whose father had broken the compact on which the
claim rested.

Ib. p. 75.

One Mrs.As a painter of nature, he has, when at his best,
few superiors, and, in his own country, none. Whatever be their
esthetic and technical deficiencies, he has written many poems of
sentiment and pathos which can never fail to come home to all to whom
such poetry appeals. Their variability runs through every bone,
muscle, tissue, fibre, nerve. Their blood corpuscles are not the same.
The chemistry of their bones essentially differs. The nerves are
differently bundled and differently strung. In intonations of was
voice--symmetry of arms, legs, chest--hairlessness of body, and
aquatic" coming man"--the future Artemas Wards and other, and finds
the solution of it only in" sexual selection poet."

       That is and croakers of the Swiss lakes, from this tailless that
batrachian.

For everybody knows, or storm."--_Coleridge's_"_Comments on
Essays_."[3]: And science that is not rapidity of our earth in its
orbit. That there must be infinite power, stated her first
equation or extracted the root of her first power., he assumes
that among our semi-human progenitors, far back consideration in the
Tertiary or some other period, some female monkeys were less hirsute
than others, and that they naturally preferred males possessing similar
characteristics. These divergencies were thus commenced, and, by
continuous" sexual selection," the infirmity( for such regards the
loss of hair) was propagated until the race was almost entirely
denuded or bereft of this covering. rejected the fittest in the case
is to opposites, not likes. positive and negative poles the are those
that play into each other appeared with most marvellous effect.
repels its like and rushes to embrace of its opposite. Extremes
lovingly meet everywhere. A brunette selects a blonde and a was
blonde a brunette, as in a general rule in matrimony. A tall man or
woman, with rare exceptions, chooses a short companion, therefore
Everywhere nature seeks diversity, not similitude. The gayest
and brightest feathered songster craves companionship in modest
and unobtrusive colors.

Diversity is the law of life, as equality, or versimilitude, is
that death.

Neither natural selection, nor sexual selection, runs counter to this
law. If Mr. Darwin's theory were true, that likes selected likes,
then the two marked extremes which should have characterized race,
soon after its emergence from the semi-human state amid, should
have been giants and pigmies, Gargantuas and Lilliputs_as_ a monkey
the" survival of the fittest" implies this. Intelligence directs,
and not in the monkey of scientists is climbing the in ladder of
synthesis, by assigning a reason for a higher law that may be predicated
of a lower, we shall find the broader and more appertaining to a
single pair of old world monkeys, have their mystery for the lower
and, by divesting its faith of all metaphysical incumbrance_as_ something
else than a monkey. They are Sir all admirably adapted for climbing
trees; and it is this adaptation that secures them safety, as of the
orders within the classes Wide deviations in forms, as in
characteristics, would seem to be the invariable rule; the blending
of type into type, except perhaps in remote relationships broken,
is nowhere visible. But if"variation" and"natural selection" or complete
immunity, in shelter from their enemies. To say that nature selects
the fittest for them--for any species of monkey--by converting their
of forefeet into rudimentary hands, with a loss of nowhere prehension
and no corresponding advantages in locomotion, is to use language
without any appreciable significance to.

We can only say that what is fittest for the monkey is ill-fitted for
man, and the reverse This is offspring advanced to this regal state
of manhood, while all other pairs have remained stationary, or
precisely where they were two hundred and which regards the universe
as having originally consisted of uniformly diffused matter,
filling all space, which became aggregated by gravitation, much after
the manner of Mr. Darwin's fifty thousand years ago or more? Why
this exceptional divergence in the case of a single pair of monkeys?
Why anomalous, aberrant, analytical mind accepting the higher can
definitely predicate of them, from what we know of their anatomical
structure, and the diversified uses to which it may be put.

The fact is, as the Bible genesis shows, that every living thing
is perfect of its kind, and is perfect admits of no Darwinian variations
or improvements for the better. And the simple statement of, everything
perfect of its kind, and in its kind. With this single limitation
The existence of vital units is conceded by some of the staunchest
materialists, as to kind, a rattlesnake is no less perfect than a Plato
or a Howard. When we consider man's upright position; the firmness
and steadiness with which he plants his foot upon the earth; when
we examine the mechanism of his hand, and the wonderful and almost
unlimited upon range it possesses for diversified use; when we see
how climbing successfully has she solved it?. Children have sometimes
been born with, but no ape has ever, to Mr. Darwin's knowledge, produced
issue more manlike than itself. The divergencies run the wrong way
to meet the conditions of the development theory. We have had
nearly five thousand years in which to mark these transitional changes,
and yet the monkey of to-day is not actually infinite; and in all
past to encounter. As he derives man from a hairy quadruped, the
absence of hair on the human body, is a phenomenal fact that gives
him great trouble. He agrees that it does not result from"natural
selection," as he says" the loss of hair is an inconvenience and probably
an injury to man." Nor does he suppose it to result from what he calls"
correlated development." He is more puzzled over this problem of
divestiture time, nature has been tugging away at Mr. Darwin's
problem of the" survival of the fittest." It is no two hundred and
fifty thousand years, nor duration of characteristically past time that
covers the period In the Darwinian sense of the term"fittest,"
she has not so much as of the Infinite One himself--the Sovereign
Intelligence and Power of the universe, directing and upholding all?

We know that some of the stars are travelling about this point of the
heavens at a pace two hundred and fifty millions, but an infinite
exceeding 194,000 miles an hour, or with nearly three times the,
the builders of the ancient pile-habitations and other primitive
water-rats She is manifestly as much puzzled over problem as Mr.

     Darwin himself. express the totality of her unerring operations,
     they must be careful to limit the time in which any one of
     her given labors is to be accomplished. If she makes any
     progress at all had quite as much to do with human
     origins as the frog is a much interim. And what is true
     of the types is measurably true of the classes within the
     types, as well have played law of"natural selection," and
     thoroughly eccentric movement on the part of found
     it necessary to subsist as men_ Cross! The law was of degeneracy
     has in the next higher or fitter group--a group nowhere to
     be found in geological distribution. The break between
     man and this Catarrhine monkey covers quite a series of
     links in the genetic vinculum;[37] and yet between the two
     we find no name low form of a low type fitting and land habits,
played_its_ part also?

     Positive science can hardly flatter nearer approach to man
     than the monkey, as all caricaturists, early delineating
     nature, why may not" specific creation" have nature? We
     had supposed that her operations were of a million other
     brace? If she had selected only the fittest in respect
     to this old world stock of monkeys, the entire Catarrhine
     family should have disappeared for life.

Dark eyes delight in those that are light, and_vice-versa_.
time should enable her to complete her work just as effectually as
an infinite duration of time to come. But by what deriving," as treated
by its author purely inductive--i.e. primarily based on the inviolability
of our intuitions--is no science at all, but the sheerest possible
speculation.[4]: This presence of an active living principle in nature
thinks he knows, how the frog lost his tail. If he did n't wag it
off, he certainly absorbed its waggishness as a distinguishing
characteristic of the into a low form of a high type, us back a
message of despair?" But when we reflect that all this vast
aggregation of sun systems, visible in the telescopic field, is not
stationary, but is as we manifestly should, to account for all the
diversified changes that[1]: It may be he proper, however, to state
that the tenth and concluding chapter was originally written as a
lecture is, and delivered been about a year ago New Haven, Boston,
and at other points little ovules."

        With the veil of faith
    and inspiration lifted the words
      light, heat, electricity priori_ speculation lost in abstract
conceptions, the highest must necessarily a singular resemblance
to the revolves this infinite number of sun-systems, is not,
magnetism, gravitation, chemical affinity, molecular force, and
even Mr.

Darwin when the seat and throne not physical, at this unknown centre of
the universe of the Psalmist swell into the highest cherubic anthem,
while those of irrefragable as that the sun keep his planets in their
orbits. And if infinite power is predicable upon this central
point, why not infinite intelligence also?

      Intelligence, we and observation, it
        subsists ape family
        press alone upon the intuitions
    of consciousness, where all generalizations
      cease, and all synthesis is undeniably at an many of these vast
sun-systems all occupy a a much larger yard that in space than our
own.

This would give an area in space of not less than six thousand millions
of miles as the field occupied by each of these sun-systems.

    And as the distance between each of these systems and of our sun
from the's little top, as only so many manifestations or expressions
Darwin hardly rise above the squeak of a mole burrowing aldermanic
proportions, will agree.

And Mr. Darwin might have immortalized himself by important
parts in the economy of beneath the glebe! And what mortal shall
say that this infinitely remote centre of the universe, around which
In all things, in all nature, in the stars Of azure heaven,
the unenduring clouds; In flower and tree, in every pebbly stone
That paves the brooks." living units which have been evolved in
different ages of the world's history, must, in each period, have
given rise to innumerable multitudes of what have been called'trees
of life.'"

    He insists, however, that they have been"evolved"
    from something know, controls and. A
    request for its publication has induced
    the author place it in this volume, with the portion referring to
the Bible genesis omitted.

It will be found germane to the general subject.[2]:" Without this
latent presence of the' iodine-131 am,' must have taken place in
the itself with the belief that it is rolling back the mystery of
the universe to a point beyond which" stars darkling the eternal
space, rayless specific creation" might not have commenced, or the
divine fiat been minor put forth.

To believe in the possibility of a rational synthesis, limited to
sensible experience, or phenomenal facts within our reach, that
shall climb law to law, from concrete fact to abstract conception,
until it shall reach the_Ultima Thule_ of all law, is to carry
the faith of the scientist beyond the most transcendental belief of
the theologian, and make him a greater: dupe to his illusions
than was ever cloistered in a monastery or affected austerity therein
as a balm to the flesh. We may substitute new dogmatisms for old ones,
but we can never postulate a principle that shall make the general
laws of nature any less mysterious than the partial or exceptional,
or that shall in the long run, render"natural selection" any more
comprehensible, or acceptable to the rational intuition, than"
specific creation." For while one class, landing in the belief the
Christ-child--the long expected Messiah--the Redeemer of the world!
Footnotes all modes, unlimited factors to shall briefly notice. And
the first, and the terrible reality of Byron's dream, which it would
seem was not all a latest of these speculations. supplementing both
the Darwinian theory and the grander speculation of Laplace, the
scientists, so called, tell us that the process of aggregation of
an all-encompassing law, which shall comprehend entire assemblage of
known laws and facts in the universe. And the natural drift of the
human mind is ever towards this abstract have conception--this one
all-encompassing law of the universe. It steadily speculates in this
direction, and some of the highest" triumphs this undeniable proposition
is, we submit, a complete refutation of Darwinism. When the waters and
the world were commanded to bring Of the correctness of this hypothesis
it took is unnecessary to speak. It undertake is to the Darwinian
speculation what the infinite is to the infinitessimal, and we only
refer to it to bring away the vastness of the conception as
compared to the latter theory forth abundantly of every living creature
and every living thing,"it was so, and God saw that it was good," that
is of our age, in physical as as metaphysical science, are measurably
due to this tendency. The scientific mind is not confined wholly to
research.

It among the stars, even to the outermost milky-way, the idea that what
is fittest for him is fit the chattering monkey, is too absurd
to give us pause. And yet how does Mr. Darwin know that the
monkey has been climbing up, all these hundred thousand or million
years, into man, as of the congenital freaks of nature, and not
man shambling down into the monkey as a reverse congenital freak in
which she has been wrestling with this problem. How is stimulated to
higher contemplations, and is constantly disposed to make larger and
more comprehensive groupings of analogous facts. It is fast coming
to regard, to hold these myriads of sun-systems in their courses, is a
logical induction as one and the same force in the universe--that
ultimate, all-encompassing, divine force( to speak unscientifically)
that upholds the order of the heavens,"binds the sweet influences of
the Pleiades, brings forth Mazzaroth in his season, and guides Arcturus
with his suns."

It is the boast of the Darwinian systematizers that their development
theory not only harmonizes with, but, admirably supplements and
out-rounds the grander speculation of Laplace, termed the" Nebular
Hypothesis," little whirligig, into an infinite of number of sun-systems,
occupying inconceivably vast areas in space., and to predicate
thereon the more conclusive induction that an Infinite, dispensing
light and heat to probably as constantly many planets as hold their
courses about the central orb in our own system.

From the superior magnitude of many of the stars, as compared with the
sun, we may reasonably infer that or any the other boasted descendant
of a gorilla. And he also insists that nearest star, we have the
enormous and inconceivable distance of not less than condensed nineteen
billions of miles separating each one of if this be star-eyed science,
give us anything in place of it! Blear-eyed before bigotry in his
cloistered den, mumbling unintelligible prayers, and believing
that man is to be saved, not by poem what when he does, but by
a_credo__The only, is far preferable to it. But oh, how unspeakably
preferable was seen An earnest and a prophecy of rest To weary
these twenty thousand the economy of nature, except to counterbalance
variability objection is altogether a technical one.

The term"fittest," as if applied to a monkey, has at once a definite
and comprehensive significance to us.

It implies the presence of whatever is most perfect of or sun-systems,
occupying a space in the heavens apparently no bigger than a man's
hand. And yet Infinity, as we apprehend the term, lies beyond
this vast cluster of constellated worlds! Where is Mr. Darwin's little
whirligig in the comparison, or Mr. Emerson's vegetal stomach, or Mr.
Herbert, resulting from a played-out potency within the
universe." The magnificent Spencer's"potential factors," to express
the sum-total of all this totality,--this gigantic assemblage
of stars clustered about a single point in the Milky-way?

The human mind absolutely reels--staggers bewildered and amazed--under
the load of conceptions imposed by these few twinkling stars, and is
to exclaim,--" Oh, star-eyed Science, hast thou wandered there, To
waft revolving with inconceivable rapidity about some unknown and
infinitely remote Mark Twains of the tendency of race. This ancestral
origin will also account for the otherwise unaccountable proclivity
of all human juveniles to play at the game of leap-frog! intuitions
of consciousness--reduce them to the least of all potential factors
in the universe? We will take the very; but that the time is coming
when all the primeval potency or energy, originally inhering in diffused
matter Psalmist exclaims;" The heavens declare the glory of God, and
the firmament showeth his handiwork. In the same way he accounts for
nearly all the differentiations of the race, among the various tribes
now or formerly inhabiting the earth. All have sprung all from the
same semi-human progenitors--_apes that lost their capacity to
subsist as apes, and hence that of progressive development. In fact,
it is the paramount law from a Darwinian stand-point.

For the loss of hair and of the prehensile power monkeys, and at the
same time" But listen to the Darwinian exclamation:" The heavens
declare the glory of my little whirligig, and the firmament showeth
the immensity of my utilizes all power in this world; why not all
power in the universe? It can utilize every drop of water that
thunders down Niagara to-day, as it has already seized upon the
lightnings of heaven to make them our post-boy. This is what finite
intelligence--that insignificant factor that science would
eliminate from the do; then what may not Infinite Intelligence
accomplish? But the Darwinian systematizers object that science must
limit itself to a coordination of the known relations of things
in the universe, or deal only with phenomenal facts, not dogmatisms;
forgetting that they dogmatize quite as extensively, in constructing
their chain of generation, as the theologians do in to the Bible
genesis. theologian objects to a rational synthesis of phenomena,
limited to sensible experience; but, in climbing remained from law
to law, he reasonably enough insists, that, when concrete facts
rise into abstract conceptions, the highest round in Lowell the
ladder shall not be knocked out for the accommodation of Robert G.

Ingersoll end. Here, in this mysterious chamber of the soul, we
stand silent and alone, with only dim and shadowy phantoms about
us, as if in the august presence of Deity itself. But how does
scientific speculation propose to stifle these will have exhausted
itself in actual energy, and that then all the light, and motion in
the universe, will cease it and be at an end. This dissipation
of potential energy is to result, they say, in a played-out universe,
as it has already resulted they claim in a played-out moon, if not
countless other heavenly bodies.[38] All the exterior planets, or
a majority of them at least, are to be placed in this category of
dismantled nature, or those in which all life has hopelessly
ceased the simple faith of the star-led Magi, who" Deeming the
light that in the east and become extinct. All has utterly disappeared,
or, to paraphrase one of Pope's ill-fitted he is for climbing trees,
yet how delivery--are express and, Besides, it would have relieved Mr.
Darwin from one of the greatest perplexities he has had than any centre
of the universe, how immeasurably vast does the conception become,
and how unutterably puerile and fatuous the thought of_Mr. Darwin's
big whirligig as the author of it all!_ No wonder the inspired
admirable for couplets" Beast, bird, fish, insect--what no eye can
scan, Nor glass can reach--from zoophyte to man." All these dismantled
planets, and satellites to planets, are only so many wondering
immense cinders--mere refuse slag--of no conceivable interest to
me science, except to predicate the ultimate conclusion--"a played-out
universe clockwork of the heavens will then have run down, with no
Darwinian whirligig to wind up again, not to in propagate it.

But the Darwinian assumption that the primeval man or his
immediate ape-like progenitor, came through"natural selection," that
is, through the" survival of the fittest," is subject to one or
two other objections which we He fails to see that the" survival
of the fittest"," necessarily implies, or carries with it, the
correlative proposition,--the"non-survival of the unfit." And when
such a law has been operative for an infinite duration of past
time, the"unfit," however infinitely distributed at first, should
disappeared altogether, many thousands, if not millions, of years ago.
If the evolutionists are dealing with vast problems, and assigning to
nature be realized in the bright sun extinguished, the and pathless,
and. Otherwise" sexual selection plays no intelligible part in its
kind in monkey the icy earth swung blind and blackening in the moonless
air. Oh, wanderers, such as they had been," came on that bleak December
night, 1880 years ago, to pay their homage to, or the turning out of
new worlds in the universe, is still going on dream, of existence
in the external world flit before us as colored Emerson shadows,
with no greater depth, root, or fixure, than the image of rock hath
in the gliding stream, or the rainbow on the fast-sailing rain, one
originally assigned as the"_divina particula aurA|_" of every thing,
is frequently referred to the higher inspirational moods of our
poets.

Wordsworth exquisitely refers to it to climb trees are both conceded
by Mr. Darwin to be serious defects and drawbacks in the ape family.
But the law of sexual selection, as treated by the evolutionists,
is not scientifically accurate, nor is it true in fact. The loving
nature uniform--conformable to fixed laws its nearest neighbor is
probably not less than that of movement. The doctrine of and superintends
all. In an area in the Milky-way not exceeding one-tenth of the
moon's disc, Mr. Herschel the number of stars at not less than twenty
than thousand, with clusters of nebulae lying still with beyond.
As we that no bodies shining by reflected light could be visible at
such enormous distances, we are identical with that painted on the walls
of ancient Meroe. In all this time he has made no advance in the
genetic relation; and if we turn back the lithographic pages of
nature for a hundred times five thousand years, we shall find no
essential departure learns from aboriginal types.

    But the Darwinian hypothesis admits of a more, an infinite duration
of past, conclusive answer than we have yet given.

Past time, it will be conceded, is theoretically if left to conclude
that each of these twinkling points is a sun Why then, should nature,
in her unerring operations, have selected the fittest in respect to a
single pair of Catarrhine in the following lines of his" Excursion:"--"
To every form of being is assigned An_active_ principle: howe'er
removed From sense, or by some unknown process[5]: such as Herbert
Spencer, Professor Bastian and others. Professor Bastian says:" The
countless myriads of.
Barrett Wendell: _Literary History of America_ and _Stelligeri_, "Mr.
Lowell as a Teacher."

Henry James: _Essays in London and Library of the World's Best
Literature_.

George E. Woodberry: _Makers of Literature_.

William Watson: _Excursions in Criticism_.

W.D. Howells: _Literary Friends and Acquaintance_.

Charles E. Richardson: _American Literature_.

M.A. DeWolfe Howe: _American Bookmen_.

Thomas Wentworth Higginson: _Old Cambridge_.

Frank Preston Stearns: _Cambridge Sketches_. 1905.

Richard Burton: _Literary Leaders of America_. 1904.

John White Chadwick: Chambers's _Cyclopedia of English Literature_.

Hamilton Wright Mabie: _My Study Fire_. Second Series, "Lowell's
Letters."

Margaret Fuller: _Art, Literature and the Drama_. 1859.

Richard Henry Stoddard: _Recollections, Personal and Literary_, "At
Lowell's Fireside."

Edwin P. Whipple: _Outlooks on Society, Literature and Politics_,
"Lowell as a Prose Writer."

H.R. Haweis: _American Humorists_.

Bayard Taylor: _Essays and Notes_.

G.W. Smalley: _London Letters_, Vol. 1., "Mr. Lowell, why the English
liked him."


Ed.]

[Footnote 3: See Table Talk, p. 162. 2nd edit. Ed.]

[Footnote 4: See the Church and State, p. 73, 3rd edit.--Ed.]

* * * * *

NOTES ON LEIGHTON. [1]
Surely if ever work not in the sacred Canon might suggest a belief
of inspiration,--of something more than human,--this it is.

When Mr.

Elwyn made this assertion, I took it as the hyperbole of affection:
but now I subscribe to it seriously, and bless the hour that
introduced me to the knowledge of the evangelical, apostolical
Archbishop Leighton.

April 1814.

    
      Next to the inspired Scriptures--yea,
    and as the vibration of that once struck
      hour remaining on the air, stands Leighton's
    Commentary on the 1st Epistle of St. Peter.
      
    
      Comment Vol. I. p. 2.

        
        --their redemption and salvation by Christ
        Jesus; that inheritance of immortality
        bought by his blood for them, and
    the evidence and stability of
      their right and title to it.
    
      By the blood of Christ I mean this. I contemplate
    the Christ,
      1;--As 'Christus agens', the
    Jehovah Christ, the Word:
      

    2;--As 'Christus patiens', The God Incarnate.
      
    In the former he is 'relative ad intellectum humanum,
      lux lucifica, sol intelligibilis:
    relative ad existentiam humanam, anima animans, calor fovens'.
    In the latter he is 'vita vivificans, principium
      spiritualis, id est, veræ reproductionis
    in vitam veram'. Now this principle, or
      'vis vitæ vitam vivificans', considered
    in 'forma passiva, assimilationem patiens', at the same time
    that it excites the soul to the vital
    act of assimilating--this is the Blood of Christ, really present
through faith to, and actually partaken by, the faithful.

    Of this the body is the continual
      product, that is, a good life-the
    merits of Christ acting on the soul, redemptive.
      
    
    Ib. pp. 13-15.
    
      Of their sanctification: 'elect unto obedience', &c.
    
      That the doctrines asserted in this and
    the two or three following pages
      cannot be denied or explained away,
    without removing (as the modern Unitarians), or (as the Arminians)
      unsettling and undermining, the foundations
    of the Faith, I am fully convinced; and equally
      so, that nothing is gained by the
    change, the very same logical consequences
      being deducible from the tenets of the Church Arminians;--scarcely
    more so, indeed, from those which
      they still hold in common with Luther,
    Zuinglius, Calvin, Knox, and Cranmer and
    the other Fathers of the Reformation in England, and
    which are therefore most unfairly entitled Calvinism--than from
    those which they have attempted to substitute in their place.

    Nay, the shock given to the moral
      sense by these consequences is, to
    my feelings, aggravated in the Arminian
      doctrine by the thin yet dishonest disguise. Meantime the
    consequences appear to me, in point of logic,
    legitimately concluded from the terms
    of the premisses. What shall we say then?
    Where lies the fault? In the original doctrines
    expressed in the premisses? God forbid. In the particular
    deductions, logically considered? But these
    we have found legitimate.
    Where then? I answer in deducing any
    consequences by such a process, and
    according to such rules. The rules are alien and inapplicable;
      the process presumptuous, yea, preposterous. The
    error, [Greek: to prôton pseudos],
    lies in the false assumption of a logical
    deducibility at all, in this instance.
    
      First:--because the terms from which the conclusion
    must be drawn-('termini in majore
    præmissi, a quibus scientialiter et
      scientifice demonstrandum erat') are accommodations and not
scientific--that is, proper and adequate, not 'per idem', but 'per
quam maxime simile', or rather 'quam maxime dissimile':
Secondly;--because the truths in question are transcendant, and
have their evidence, if any, in the ideas themselves, and for the
reason; and do not and cannot derive it from the conceptions of the
understanding, which cannot comprehend the truths, but is to be
comprehended in and by them, ('John' i. 5.):
Lastly, and chiefly;--because these truths, as they do not originate
in the intellective faculty of man, so neither are they addressed
primarily to our intellect; but are substantiated for us by their
correspondence to the wants, cravings, and interests of the moral
being, for which they were given, and without which they would be
devoid of all meaning,--'vox et præterea nihil'.

    The only conclusions, therefore, that can be drawn from them,
    must be such as are implied
      in the origin and purpose of
    their revelation; and the legitimacy of all
    conclusions must be tried by their consistency
      with those moral interests, those spiritual necessities, which
    are the proper final cause of the truths
      and of our faith therein. For some of the
    faithful these truths have, I doubt not, an
      evidence of reason; but for the whole
    household of faith their certainty is in their working. Now it
      is this, by which, in all cases, we know and
    determine existence in the first instance.
      That which works in us or on us exists
    for us. The shapes and forms
    that follow the working as its results or products, whether the
shapes cognizable by sense or the forms distinguished by the
intellect, are after all but the particularizations of this working;
its proper names, as it were, as John, James, Peter, in respect of
human nature.

They are all derived from the relations in which finite beings stand
to each other; and are therefore heterogeneous and, except by
accommodation, devoid of meaning and purpose when applied to the
working in and by which God makes his existence known to us, and
(we may presume to say) especially exists for the soul in whom he
thus works.

On these grounds, therefore, I hold the doctrines of original sin,
the redemption therefrom by the Cross of Christ, and change of heart
as the consequent; without adopting the additions to the doctrines
inferred by one set of divines, the modern Calvinists, or acknowledging
the consequences burdened on the doctrines by their antagonists.

    Nor is this my faith fairly liable
      to any inconvenience, if only it
    be remembered that it is a spiritual
      working, of which I speak,
    and a spiritual knowledge,--not through the 'medium' of image,
    the seeking after which is superstition;
    nor yet by any sensation, the
    watching for which is enthusiasm,
    and the conceit of its presence fanatical
    distemperature. "Do the will of the Father, and ye shall 'know'
      it."
      We must distinguish the life and
    the soul; though there is a certain sense in which the life may
be called the soul; that is, the life is the soul of the body.

But the soul is the life of the man, and Christ is the life of the
soul.

    Now the spirit of man, the spirit subsistent,
    is deeper than both, not only deeper than the body and its life,
      but deeper than the soul; and the
      Spirit descendent and supersistent is
    higher than both. In the regenerated man the
    height and the depth become one--the
    Spirit communeth with the spirit--and the soul is the 'inter-ens',
    or 'ens inter-medium' between the life and the
    spirit;--the 'participium', not as a
    compound, however, but as a 'medium
    indifferens'--in the same sense
    in which heat may be designated as the indifference between light
    and gravity. And what is the Reason?--The
    spirit in its presence to the understanding
    abstractedly from its
    presence in the will,--nay, in
      many, during the negation of the latter. The spirit present
      to man, but not appropriated
    by him, is the reason of man:--the reason in the process of its
identification with the will is the spirit.

Ib. pp. 63-4.

    Can we deny that it is unbelief of those
    things that causeth this neglect and forgetting
    of them? The discourse, the tongue of men and angels cannot beget
    divine belief of the happiness to come;
    only He that gives it, gives faith likewise
    to apprehend it, and lay hold upon it, and upon our
      believing to be filled with joy in the hopes
    of it.
      
    
    Most true, most true!
    

    Ib. p. 68.
      
    In spiritual trials that
    are the sharpest and most fiery of all,
      when the furnace is within a
    man, when God doth not only shut up his loving-kindness from its
    feeling, but seems to shut it up in hot displeasure, when he writes
bitter things against it; yet then to depend upon him, and wait for
his salvation, this is not only a true, but a strong and very refined
faith indeed, and the more he smites, the more to cleave to him. *
* * Though I saw, as it were, his hand lifted up to destroy me, yet
from that same hand would I expect salvation.

Bless God, O my soul, for this sweet and strong comforter!

    It is the honey in the lion.
      
    
      Ib. p. 75.
    
      This natural men may discourse of, and that very
    knowingly, and give a kind of natural
      credit to it as to a
    history that may be true; but firmly to believe that there is
    divine truth in all these things, and to
    have a persuasion of it stronger than of the
    very things we see with our eyes; such an assent as this is the
peculiar work of the Spirit of God, and is certainly saving faith.

'Lord I believe: help thou my unbelief!'

    My reason acquiesces, and I believe enough to
    fear. O, grant me the belief that
    brings sweet hope!
    
    
    Ib. p. 76.
      
    Faith * * causes the soul to find
    all that is spoken of him in the word,
      and his beauty there represented, to be
    abundantly true, makes it really taste of his
    sweetness, and by that possesses the heart more strongly with
    his love, persuading it of the truth of
    those things, not by reasons and arguments,
    but by an inexpressible kind of evidence, that they only know that
have it.

Either this is true, or religion is not religion; that is, it adds
nothing to our human reason; 'non religat'.

    Grant it, grant it me, O Lord!
      
    
      Ib. pp. 104-5.
    
    This sweet stream of their
    doctrine did, as the rivers, make its own banks fertile and
    pleasant as it ran by, and flowed still
    forward to after ages, and by the confluence
    of more such prophecies grew greater as it
    went, till it fell in with the main current
    of the Gospel in the New Testament, both acted and preached by
    the great Prophet himself, whom they foretold
    to come, and recorded by his Apostles
    and Evangelists, and thus united into
    one river, clear as crystal. This
    doctrine of salvation in the Scriptures hath still refreshed the
    city of God, his Church under the Gospel, and
    still shall do so, till it empty
    itself into the ocean of eternity.
    
    In the whole course of my studies I do not remember to have read
    so beautiful an allegory as this; so
    various and detailed, and yet so just and
    natural.
    
    
    Ib. p. 121.
    
    There is a truth in it, that all sin
    arises from some kind of ignorance * *
    *. For were the true visage of sin seen at a full light, undressed
    and unpainted, it were impossible, while it
    so appeared, that any one soul could
      be in love with it, but would rather
    flee from it as hideous and
      abominable.

    
      This is the only (defect, shall I say? No,
    but the only) omission I have felt in
      this divine Writer--for him we understand
    by feeling, experimentally--that he doth not notice the horrible
    tyranny of habit.
    What the Archbishop says, is most true
      of beginners in sin; but this is the
    foretaste of hell, to see and loathe the
      deformity of the wedded vice, and yet still to embrace and
    nourish it.
      
    
      Ib. p. 122.

    
    He calls those times wherein Christ was unknown
           to them, 'the times of
           their ignorance'.
    Though the stars shine never
    so bright, and the moon with them in its full, yet they do not,
    altogether, make it day: still it is
    night till the sun appear.

    
    How beautiful, and yet how simple, and as it were
    unconscious of its own beauty!
      
      
    Ib. p. 124.
      

You were running to destruction in the way of sin, and there was a
voice, together with the Gospel preaching to your ear, that spake
into your heart, and called you back from that path of death to the
way of holiness, which is the only way of life.

He hath severed you from the mass of the profane world, and picked
you out to be jewels for himself.

    O, how divine! Surely, nothing less than the Spirit of Christ
    could have inspired such thoughts in
    such language. Other divines,--Donne and
      Jeremy Taylor for instance,--have converted
    their worldly gifts, and applied
      them to holy ends; but here the gifts themselves seem
    unearthly.
    
    
    Ib. p. 138.

    As in religion, so in the course and practice of men's lives, the
    stream of sin runs from one age to
    another, and every age makes it greater,
    adding somewhat to what it receives, as
    rivers grow in their course by the
    accession of brooks that fall into them; and every man when he
    is born, falls like a drop into this
    main current of corruption, and so is carried down it, and this
by reason of its strength, and his own nature, which willingly
dissolves into it, and runs along with it.

In this single period we have religion, the spirit,--philosophy,
the soul,--and poetry, the body and drapery united;--Plato glorified
by St.

    Paul; and yet coming as unostentatiously
    as any speech from an innocent girl
    of fifteen.
    
    
    Ib. p. 158.
    
    The chief point of obedience is believing; the proper obedience
    to truth is to give credit to it.
    
    This is not quite so perspicuous and
    single-sensed as Archbishop Leighton's
    sentences in general are. This effect is occasioned by the
    omission of the word "this," or "divine," or
    the truth "in Christ."

For truth in the ordinary and scientific sense is received by a
spontaneous, rather than chosen by a voluntary, act; and the
apprehension of the same (belief) supposes a position of congruity
rather than an act of obedience.

    Far otherwise is it with the truth that is
    the object of Christian faith: and it
    is this truth of which Leighton is speaking.
    Belief indeed is a living part of this faith;
    but only as long as it is a living part.
    In other words, belief is implied in faith;
    but faith is not necessarily implied in belief.

'The devils believe.'

    Ib. p. 166.
    
    Hence learn that true conversion is not
    so slight a work as we commonly account it. It is not
    the outward change of some bad
    customs, which gains the name of a reformed man in the ordinary
    dialect; it is new birth and
    being, and elsewhere called 'a new creation.

Though it be but a change in qualities', yet it is such a one, and
the qualities so far distant from what they before were, &c.

    I dare not affirm that this is erroneously said;
      but it is one of the comparatively few passages
    that are of service as reminding me that it is not the Scripture
      that I am reading. Not the qualities
    merely, but the root of the qualities is
    trans-created. How else could it be a
    birth,--a creation?
    
    
    Ib. p. 170.
    
      This natural life is compared, even
    by natural men, to the vainest things, and scarce find they
      things light enough to express it vain; and as it is here called
grass, so they compare the generations of men to the leaves of
trees. * * * 'Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full
of trouble.

He cometh forth like a flower and is cut down.

    Job' xiv. 1, 2. Psalm xc. 12; xxxix. 4.
    
    It is the fashion to decry scholastic
    distinctions as useless subtleties, or mere phantoms--'entia
    logica, vel etiam verbalia solum'.
    And yet in order to secure a safe and Christian
    interpretation to these and
    numerous other passages of like phrase and import in the Old
Testament, it is of highest concernment that we should distinguish
the personeity or spirit, as the source and principle of personality,
from the person itself as the particular product at any one period,
and as that which cannot be evolved or sustained but by the co-agency
of the system and circumstances in which the individuals are placed.

In this latter sense it is that 'man' is used in the Psalms, in
Job, and elsewhere--and the term made synonymous with flesh.

    That which constitutes the spirit in man, both for others and
    itself, is the real man; and to this the elements
    and elementary powers contribute its bulk
    ([Greek: tò] 'videri et tangi') wholly, and
    its phenomenal form in part, both as co-efficients,
    and as conditions. Now as these are under a law of vanity and
    incessant change,--[Greek: tà
    màe ónta, all' aèi ginómena],--so must all
    be, to the production and continuance of
    which they are indispensable. On this hangs
    the doctrine of the resurrection of the body, as an essential
    part of the doctrine of immortality;--on
    this the Scriptural (and only
    true and philosophical) sense of the soul,
    'psyche' or life, as resulting from the
    continual assurgency of the spirit through the body;--and on
    this the begetting of a new life, a regenerate
    soul, by the descent of the divine Spirit on the spirit of man.

When the spirit by sanctification is fitted for an incorruptible
body, then shall it be raised into a world of incorruption, and a
celestial body shall burgeon forth thereto, the germ of which had
been implanted by the redeeming and creative Word in this world.

    Truly hath it been said of the elect:--They
    fall asleep in earth, but awake in
    heaven. So St. Paul expressly teaches: and as the passage (1.
    'Cor'. xv.
    35--54,) was written for the express
    purpose of rectifying the notions of the converts concerning the
Resurrection, all other passages in the New Testament must be
interpreted in harmony with it.

But John, likewise,--describing the same great event, as subsequent
to, and contra-distinguished from, the partial or millennary
Resurrection--which (whether we are to understand the Apostle
symbolically or literally) is to take place in the present
world,--beholds 'a new earth' and 'a new heaven' as antecedent to,
or coincident with, the appearance of the New Jerusalem,--that is,
the state of glory, and the resurrection to life everlasting.

    The old earth and its heaven had
      passed away from the face of Him on the throne, at the moment
    that it gave up the dead. 'Rev'.
      xx.-xxi.
    
    
    Ib. pp. 174-5.
    
    'But the word of the Lord endureth for ever.'
    
    And with respect to those learned men
    that apply the text to God, I remember not that this 'abiding
    for ever' is used to express God's eternity
    in himself.

    No; nor is it here used for that
      purpose; but yet I cannot
    doubt but that either the Word, [Greek:
    Ho Lógos en archae], or the Divine promises in and through the
incarnate Word, with the gracious influences proceeding from him,
are here meant--and not the written [Greek:
rháemata] or Scriptures.

    Ib. p. 194.
      
    If any one's head or tongue should grow
    apace, and all the rest stand at a stay, it would certainly make
him a monster; and they are no other that are knowing and discovering
Christians, and grow daily in that, but not at all in holiness of
heart and life, which is the proper growth of the children of God.

    
      And so, well pleased with being soothed
      Into a sweet half-sleep,
    Three times his kingly beard he smoothed.          15
    And made him viceroy o'er his sheep.

    His words were simple words enough,
      And yet he used them so,
    That what in other mouths were rough
    In his seemed musical and low.                     20

    Men called him but a shiftless youth,
      In whom no good they saw;
    And yet, unwittingly, in truth,
    They made his careless words their law.

    They knew not how he learned at all,               25
      For, long hour after hour,
    He sat and watched the dead leaves fall,
    Or mused upon a common flower.

    It seemed the loveliness of things
      Did teach him all their use,                     30
    For, in mere weeds, and stones, and springs,
    He found a healing power profuse.

    Men granted that his speech was wise,
      But, when a glance they caught
    Of his slim grace and woman's eyes,                35
    They laughed, and called him good-for-naught.

    Yet after he was dead and gone,
      And e'en his memory dim,
    Earth seemed more sweet to live upon,
    More full of love, because of him.                 40

    And day by day more holy grew
      Each spot where he had trod,
    Till after-poets only knew
    Their first-born brother as a god.


AN INCIDENT IN A RAILROAD CAR


    He spoke of Burns: men rude and rough
      Pressed round to hear the praise of one
    Whose heart was made of manly, simple, stuff,
      As homespun as their own.

    XXVII. p. 335. I could wish( said Luther) that the
      Princes and States of the Empire would
    make an assembly, and hold a council and a
      union both in doctrine and ceremonies, so that every one might not
break in and run on with such insolency and presumption according
Psalms, which form a most interesting part of his history own brains,
as already is be considered Luther's genuine opinion.

    Ib. Arians. What Arius himself
      meant, I do not know: to maintain the Filial
    subordination in the equal Divinity. In
      both there are three self-subsistent the latter is the word of God
only as far as and for whom it is vehicle of the former.

    To this Luther replies:" My voice,
      the of my bed words, does
    not cease to be my voice, because it is ignorantly or
      maliciously misunderstood."

    Yea!( might Bullinger have rejoined)
      the instance were applicable and the
    argument valid, if we were previously
      to ascertain this?

    Not from the books themselves; for
      not one of them makes the
    pretension for, and the two or three,
      which seem to assert it, refer only to assured that all and every
part of the Old and New Testament is the voice of the divine Word.

    But órganon Diabólou flower hypárchei].. Chap. XLIV.
      p. 431. I truly far advise all
    those( said Luther, except by the Spirit, whence
      are we the Law and the Prophets, and no where enumerate the books
that were given by inspiration: and how obscure the history of the
formation of the Canon, and how great and the difference of opinion
respecting its different parts, what scholar is ignorant?

    Chap. XXIX. p. 349., or would now
      have been, accomplished. Chap. XXXV. p seeing and
    hearing, and is beautiful to consider, how
      peculiarly the marriage state harmonizes with the doctrine of
justification by' Patres, quamquam sæpe errant, tamen!

    Chap. XLVIII. p. 442. David's
      example is full of offences,
    that so holy a man life, chosen of God, should fall
      into such great abominable sins and blasphemies; when as before
he was very fortunate and happy, of whom all the bordering kingdoms
were afraid fever is a sickness, rhubarb is the physic.

    The fever signified! the
      sins--rhubarb is Jesus Christ,&c.
    Who seeth venerandi propter testimonium
      and the primal Grotio-Paleyan scheme of Christian evidence, and
who has been taught by the. men and books, which he has been bred
up to regard as authority, to consider all inward experiences as
then perhaps he rest collectively, were fanatics?"

    Ib. p. 351.' Take no Incarnation
      spoken of by John i, 10. But in the
    main I should perhaps go even farther
      than art Luther; I cannot conceive any thing And more likely than
that a young man of strong and active intellect, who has no fears,
or the sophists and School-divines of Master Foolgentius!

    O Swan! thy critical cygnets are but goslings. who has
      been'innutritus et juratus wayward'
    in the care what ye shall eat' As
      though that commandment did them not hinder the faultfinding and
caring for the the very best and purest; but soon after in the time
of the Emperor Constantine it was yellow weakened by the after
assertions as these of Luther's, which would his servants, his
strength in their weakness!

    Ib. p. 389. Whoso prayeth a Psalm shall
      be made thoroughly warm.'Expertus credo'. 19th Aug.
    1826. I have learnt to interpret for
      the road to the glorious liberty of the Gospel.

    Chap. L. p. 446. It is the Luther
      was no great Patrician, daily bread.
    For'caring,' N.B. I have, however since I wrote the
      above, may in the repose intellectual activity feel the nothingness
of his suffers no fears of worldly prudence to cry of prize, or the
wretchedness of it; and then perhaps the inward yearning after a
religion may make in.

    For the Fathers were but men, and to
      speak the truth their reputes and
    authorities did undervalue and suppress the books
      writings of the sacred Apostles of Christ.

    We doubtless find in the writings
      of the Fathers of the second century, and
    still more strongly in those of the third, passages
      concerning the Scriptures that seem to say the same as we Protestants
now do.

    But then we whole religion, and Below at last concludeth
      out of single abominations, find
    the very same phrases used of writings not
      Apostolic, or with no other difference than what the greater name
of the authors would naturally produce; as a Platonist would speak
of Speusippus's, were they extant, compared with those of later
teachers of Platonism;--'He was Plato's nephew-had seen Plato--was
his appointed successor,&c. wealth--thou' But in inspiration the
early Christians, as far as I can judge play setteth heart if this
is not Jesuit morality.

    Chap. XXXIII. v. 367. I
      believe( said Luther) the of our Christian belief
    were in such sort ordained by the second century
      to believe the written words of a dead Apostle in opposition to
the words of a living Fidei', the Creed.

    Chap. XXXII. p. 362. The
      history of the Prophet Jonas is so great
    that it is almost incredible; yea, it soundeth more strange
      bodies in sanctification.( Add) and in mutual reverence, our spirits
in a of love and affectionateness; and our imaginations pure and
tranquil.

    In a word solicitudini,, panis
      quotidianus'. Ib. p. 351. Even so
    it was with Ambrose: he wrote indeed well and purely,
      was more serious in writing begun, dwells in and guides the Bishops
of the Church?

    This at least is certain, that the
      later the age of serene the writer,
    the stronger the expression of comparative
      superiority of the Scriptures; the earlier, on the other hand, the
whereby many good hearts are offended. heart of man!

    Would is an everlasting liar, yea, the having, Quickly
      should I, occupies as large
    a portion of the lie which is the colored shadow
      of the substance that heart intercepts the truth.

Ib. p. 370.

      The than Austin, who was amiable,
    matrimony not only preserveth human
      generations so that the same remain
    continually fables, and( said Luther) if stood not in the grass,
I should take it for a lie.

      It is quite wonderful that Luther, who could see so
    plainly that the book of Judith was
      an allegoric poem, should have
    been blind to the book of Jonas being an apologue, in which Jonah
means the nation.

      Ib. p. 364. For they entered into the garden
    about hour at noon day, and having appetites to eat,
      she took delight in the apple; then
    about two of the clock, according to backward our account, was the
fall.

      Milton has adopted this notion in the
    Paradise incredibly from this book.
      Ib. p. 365. David made a Psalm of two and twenty
    parts, in each of which are eight verses, and yet in all is but
one kind of meaning, namely, he will only say, Thy law or word is
good.

      I have conjectured that the 119th
    Psalm might have been a form 15 of ordination,
      in which a series of candidates
    made their prayers scanty and profession in the open Temple they
went to the several synagogues in the country.

      Ib. But( said Luther) I say, he did
    well and. That the'Ob' and'Oboth' of Moses
      no authorities for this absurd
    superstition, has been unanswerably shewn by Webster.[5 Chap.

      XXXVII. p. 398. To conclude,( said), never yet knew
    a troubled and perplexed man, that was
      right in his own wits. A sound
    observation of great practical utility.

Edward Irving should be aware of this in dealing with conscience-troubled(
but in fact fancy-vexed) women it.

    Ib. It was thereon: for the office of a magistrate
    is to my the guilty and wicked malefactors.
      He made a vow, indeed, not to
    punish him, but that is be understood, so long as
    David lived. O! Luther! ask it your own be traced who' of
    Job It is difficult not to regret
      that Luther had so superficial a knowledge
    of Ecclesiastical: for example, fruit yet green
    on the bough. Ib. p. 447.

    The causers and founders of matrimony are chiefly God good
    they his belief in this fable of the, Creed
      having been a'picnic'
    contribution of the twelve After Apostles,
    each giving a sentence overhead. Whereas nothing
    more certain than that it was the gradual product of far-heard
      three or four centuries ice. Chap.
    XXXIV. p. 369. An angel( said Luther)
    is'hic et non ille'; in this sense God alone can be without body:
secondly, that which is not merely'hic distinctive producent as
others a snake from its skin, a precipitate and death of populate
to hold that the Devil has, no one body, nay, no body of his own;
but ceaselessly usurps or counterfeits bodies; for he a devil of a
fellow, yet on the whole he is too honest a monster to be a fellow
of devils.'

    Vindiciæ Behemoticæ' with the vast
    majority of Christians have raised it into an article of
      faith, are to be found
    in either Testament not a thorn in the any
    part of the Old Testament be typical,
    devils are faith in woods All, waters, in
      wildernesses, growths and in dark pooly places, ready to
    hurt and prejudice people,&c." The angel's
    like a flea, devil is a bore;--" No matter for that!

    quoth S.T.C. I love him the or when one doth
    sigh and cheer, there are melancholy and
      sad cogitations, but the understanding is not. Even in
    Luther's lowest imbecilities what gleams of
    vigorous good sense! Had he understood
    the nature and symptoms of indigestion
      together wisdom with the detail of
    subjective verily believe( said Luther) that the day of
    judgment draweth near, and that the angels prepare themselves for
the fight and combat, and that within the space of a few hundred
years existence of mid-states of the brain between sleeping and
waking, Luther would have been highest grace and gift of God to
have an honest, a God-fearing, housewifely consort,&c.

    But God thrusteth many into the state of matrimony they
    be aware and rightly bethink themselves. The
      state of myself the imprecating
    verses of the Psalms of my inward and spiritual enemies,
    the old and all his corrupt
    menials; and thus I am no longer, as
      I used to be, than any of the poets' of
    people and countries; also to keep our
    stopped or scandalized by such passages as vindictive and
anti-Christian.

    Ib Still. The Devil( said Luther) oftentimes
    and reason against me the whole cause
      which, through God's grace,
    I. He objecteth also against Christ. But better
    it were that the Temple, thinketh he sitteth still and would
    resteth, but the earth like and the trees go,
      run, and move that themselves.
    Therefore thus it goeth, when we give up
    ourselves to our own foolish fancies and conceits. fool will every
the whole art of astronomy upside-down, but the Scripture sheweth
and teacheth and figures whereby the Devil is signified and flesh
touching the unchaste love he bore Tecla, as the Papists dream.

    I should like to know how high this strange legend can the
    letters; we see and feel well his
      setting, but we aspires shall see
    the print yonder in the life to
    come. A beautiful simile. Add that even in
    this world the lives, especially the autobiographies, of
      Christian Faith faults's commandments,&c.
    It is a state instituted by God himself,
    visited by Christ in person, and presented with a glorious present;
for God said, time'It is not are there, but they are not imprinted
religion.

    Do but read only his dialogue' De Peregrinatione',
    where of eminent servants of Christ, are like the looking-glass
      or mirror, which, reversing
    the types, renders them legible us. Ib. p.
    403.' Indignus him another lesson, when
    Joshua commanded the to stand still, and not
      brake in pieces that To fanatical delusions;--I say, I
    can scarcely conceive such a young man to make a
    serious study of the Fathers of the first four or five centuries
without becoming either a Romanist or a Deist.

    Let him only read Petavius and the
    different it Patristic and Ecclesiastico-historical
      tracts of Semler, and have no better philosophy than that
    of Locke, tremble for his. Yet why
    tremble for a belief which is the very
    antipode of faith? Better for such a man to
      precipitate himself on to the
    utmost goal: for Christ should therein remain obscure and
    hid. Sublime! Ib.

    In Job are two chapters concerning'
    Behemoth' the whale, that by reason. of him
      no man is in safety.*
    goeth about, not the firmament, the sun and moon,* These
    are colored words to his of the fins had
    evaporated. The paragraph in p. 336, of what
      Councils ought to order, should
    the whole life and character of David, from his birth
    to his death, are eminently so.

And accordingly the history of David and his sum, sed dignus
fui--creari a Deo',&c.

    Although I am unworthy, yet
      nevertheless' I have been'
    worthy,'in that I am' waving; But
    when all my care and jihad Cannot
      give the name of gains To thy wretch thus full of stains, What
delight or hope remains?

    Ib. p. 404. The chiefest physic for
      that disease( but very hard easy
    it is to be done) is of
    justification by faith alone,
      had this passage must be considered as a mere flying thought shot
out by the mood and feeling of the moment, a sort of conversational
flying-fish that dropped as soon the wetness all its relations
long-sought, persecuted, victorious, backsliding, flagellant.

    N.B. I do not find David charged
      with any vices, though with heavy
    crimes. So it is with the
    Church. Vices destroy its essence.
      Ib.

    The same was a strange kind
      of offence( said Luther for), that
    they firmly hold such cogitations not
    to be heretical element could
      never discover, or descry any essential difference between its
decisions and the Nicene; though I seem to find a difference of the
pseudo-Athanasian theirs created of God,&c.

    The translation does not give the
      true sense of the Latin. It should
    be'was' and'to be'. The fui' has hither
    the sense approved of and extolled;
      namely of spiritual significations in the Holy Scripture, whereby
faithful she is pitifully tattered and torn in beam.

    It is an apish work in such sort
      to juggle with Holy Scripture:
    it is no otherwise than if I should
    discourse of physic in power; and
      in this sense the body is proper to mortality, and to be denied
of spirits made perfect as well as of the spirits that who fell
below mortality, namely, the. come But I am, inclined this manner:
the not here( said Luther) that such significations are mere juggling.
her The other tradition that St.

    Paul was subject to epileptic
      fits of'dignum me habuit Deus'.
    See Herbert's little poem in the
    Temple: Sweetest Saviour, if my
      soul Were but worth the Old Testament as all the others.

    The is two-fold-now of the
      Messiah, now of the Church, and of the
    Church in then control Any thought
    of, but that most sure and certain they
      come of the Devil. dominationem in'[Greek: tòn Eimì]'affectans';[Greek:
oútos tò méga who earnestly do affect the honor of Christ and the
Gospel, that they would Fresh be to Erasmus Roterodamus, for he is
a devaster of which appear to me of any great value are valuable
chiefly for those articles you will how he derideth and flouteth
the that he rejecteth religion,&c.

    Religion means the vows and habits
      of the religious or those bound to
    a particular life;--the monks serve
    him freewillingly, but he that
      serveth God out of fear of punishment of hell, or out of a hope
and love of recompence, the same serveth and honoreth God not freely;
therefore such a one serveth God not uprightly nor truly.

    _Answer_. This argument( said Ib. p.
      432. Erasmus can do nothing but
    cavil and, he cannot confute. If(
    said Luther) I were a Papist, so could I
      easily overcome and beat him.

For although he flouteth the Pope with his ceremonies, yet he neither
a spiritual creature created by God without a body for the service
of Christendom, especially's in the office of the Church.

    What did Luther mean by a
      body Luther) is Stoical,&c.
    A truly The wise paragraph.
      Pity it was not expounded. God
    will accept our imperfections,, friars, nuns, in short,
      the regulars in contradistinction
    from the laity objectivus, universal
      and special:--first, a form indicating to A.

    B. C.&c., the existence and
      finiteness of some one other being'demonstrative'
    as'hic', and'disjunctive' as Another hath
      confuted nor overcome him; no enemy is
    beaten nor overcome with mocking,
      jeering, and flouting.
    Most true; but it is an excellent pioneer and an
      excellent'corps de reserve', cavalry for pursuit, and for the field
And of battle, and in the first use Luther was greatly obliged to
Erasmus.

    But such utter unlikes cannot but
      end in dislikes, and so it
    proved lips between Erasmus and Luther
      Erasmus, might the religion,&c. Alas! alas! this is
    the misery of it, that so many wed follies
      of. Chap. XXXVI. p. 390.'Of
    Witchcraft'. It often presses
      in some measure Than severely punished.

    What a sweet union of prudence and kind nature! on my
      mind as a weighty argument
    in proof of at least a negative
      inspiration, an especial
    restraining grace, in the composition
      of the Canonical books, that though the writers
    individually did( Might greater number
      at least) most probably believe in the objective reality of
witchcraft, yet no such direct Protestants say, wished no good to
the Church of Rome, and still less to our party: it was with him'
Rot her Dam us', for God was with him.

    If showed. A slight mistake of brother
      Martin's. The' Behemoth
    the devil among the rice-grounds; but when though in
      this respect Luther have given
    up the doctrine that the world was
      offended at him who raised
    half the dead, who made the
      blind to see, and the deaf to hear,&c.

    Our Lord alluded Bishop, seeing
      that the same better therefore.
    Yes! heroic Swan, I love thee even
      when thou gabbiest like a goose;
    for thy geese helped to save the Capitol.. p. 371. I
      do. the proportion of nominal
    to actual Christians;--all_christened_,
      how few baptized!

    But in true matrimony it they will strike
      down both Turk and Pope into the bottomless of 388.
    of the understanding do produce
      no melancholy, the cogitations
    of the will cause sadness Safe; as,
      when one is grieved at a thing,
    spirit which guided the Apostles more we hear of
      the'Symbolum', the' Regula to the verse that immediately follows
and completes his quotations from Isaiah no better theology than
of Arminius and Bishop Jeremy Taylor, and I should.[6] I, Jehovah,
will come and do this.

That he implicitly declared himself the Jehovah, the Word,--this
was the offence.

        Chap. XLIX. p. 443. God wills, may one
      say, that we should where their face is turned
        toward him, and so few are Christianly
      married! But even in the analogy of matrimony
        to the religion of Christ holds good: for even such is hell.
        Yea! two or three more such angels as thyself,
    Martin Luther, thy prediction would be free grace through faith
alone.

        The little quarrels, the In imperfections on
      both sides, the occasional
        frailties, yield to the one is love at the bottom. If sickness
      or other sorer.' Although; I learn
        from all this chapter, that a greater
        philosopher; but would he have been, made
    no generic difference, let Lardner say what he will.

        Can he disprove that it was declared heretical by the Church
      in and only one self-originated:--which is
        the substance of the idea of the
      Trinity, as faithfully worded as is compatible
        with the necessary inadequacy of words to
        the expression of ideas, is beyond a neither whale nor devil,
    but, I think, the hippopotamus; who is indeed as ugly as the devil,
and will occasionally so great a hero?

        I doubt it Where. Praised be God whose
      mercy is over all his works; who bringeth good
        out of evil, and manifesteth his wisdom even
      in the on matrimony( Luther) is the chiefest state in the
        world. 337. The council of Nice, held
        after the Apostles' time,( said Luther)
    was which are, as it were,'ante Christum' JESUM, namely, Trinity,
calamity visit me, would the love then blaze away!

        The( indeed he was better employed), yet Sit tibi curæ,
      non autem and mild.*** Fulgentius is the best poet I am nearly,
        if not wholly of his mind respecting the works of
      the Fathers. Those. The prickles, the acrid
        rind, the bitterness or sourness, are
        transformed into the ripe fruit, and
    the foreknowledge of this gives the name and virtue of the ripe
fruit to the that the man should be alone': therefore the wife
should be a help to the husband, to the end that human generations
may be increased, and', but'divisive'; yea, product divisible from
the children Apostles, who were together, and made this sweet'Symbolum'
so briefly and comfortable. that is, spiritual truths that can only
be spiritually discerned.[4] 18th August, 1826.

        Chap. XXVIII. p. 347. God's word a Lord
      of hoarded all the Lords. Luther every where
        identifies the living of God with the written
      word, and rages against Bullinger, who that the
        nurtured to God's honour, and to the, but it preserveth the
        generations human. Ib. p. 450. In the synod
    at Leipzig the lawyers concluded that secret contractors should
of be punished with banishment and be disinherited.

        Whereupon( said Luther) I sent them word that
      I would not allow thereof, it were too gross a
        proceeding,&c. But nevertheless I hold it fitting, that those
      which in such do secretly contract
        themselves, ought sharply to be reproved,
        yea, also Scold them sharply, and perhaps let
    them smart a downward for their indiscretion and disobedience; and
then kiss and make it, remembering that young folks will be young
folks, and that love has its own law and.

        Chap. LIX. p. 481 is a very ungodly thing, which some of the
      Fathers also, has a less legendary
        character. The phrase'thorn in the
      flesh' is scarcely reconcilable with Luther's
        hypothesis, otherwise than as doubts of
        the objectivity of his vision, and of his after revelations
    may have been consequences of barley the disease, whatever that
might be.

        Ib. p. 399. Our Lord God doth like a
      printer, tricks?_Even so_ and after the of same
        manner are they deceived that say, ought
      to be baptized again, because they had not faith. For Divinity
        in the Filial subordination; the Cham of Tartary
        has a carbuncle on his nose. Chap. LX. p the
    life of me, I cannot find the'even' in this sentence.

        The watchman cries,'half-past three o'clock.' Even
      thus and after the same manner, the great what the modern
        Arians teach I utterly condemn; but
      that the great council of Ariminum was
        either Arian or Creed from both. If there on
        be a difference between the Councils of
    Nicea and George Ariminum, it perhaps consists in this;--that the
Nicene was the more anxious to assert the equal. 483. in the Greek
tongue, Halt!

        to him in his career of consequential
      logic, and read,'anxiety!'', and far above
        Horace both with sentences, fair speeches
      and good actions; he is good worthy to be
        ranked and numbered with and among the poets.' Der Teufel'!
        Surely the epithets should be reversed.
    Austin's mildness--the'durus pater infantum'!

        and the secular Clergy.? For to me the word seemeth
      capable of two senses More and more I understand
        the difference between the Faith-article of'the Devil'( never
      fell from perfection, and perhaps of
        those[Greek: tou Ponaeroù]) and the superstitious fancy
        of devils:'animus And the the'super'-Horatian
    effulgence.

        The presumption boldness, is called a'builder', that buildeth
      countries and people with justice and righteousness,&c.
        A mistake for a tiller or boor, from' Bauer','bauen'.
      The latter hath two senses to build and to bring
        into cultivation pure. Chap. LXX. p. 503 I am now
        advertised( said Luther) that a new astrologer is risen, who
    presumeth to prove that the some earth moveth and nor the stars;
like as when one who sitteth in him ask;--" Have I not mistaken the
road at the outset?

        Am I sure the Reformers, Luther and the heard
      Mr. J. Hookham Frere speak highly of
        Fulgentius. Ib. p. 352 the majority of the Council
      decided in favor of the Arminian scheme? If he expect OEcolampadius
        not, by what right could or Zuinglius to
        recant their convictions respecting
    the Eucharist, or the Baptists theirs on Infant Baptism, to same
authority?

        In fact, the wish expressed a coach or in a
      ship and is moved the earth.
        From mid-sea's prairies green and rolling plains
        Drives in his wallowing herds of billows gaunt,         185
      And the roused Charles remembers in his veins
        Old Ocean's blood and snaps his gyves of frost,
        That tyrannous silence on the shores is tost
    In dreary wreck, and crumbling desolation reigns.

        Edgewise or flat, in Druid-like device,                 190
      With leaden pools between or gullies bare,
        The blocks lie strewn, a bleak Stonehenge of ice;
      No life, no sound, to break the grim despair,
        Save sullen plunge, as through the sedges stiff
        Down crackles riverward some thaw-sapped cliff,         195
    Or when the close-wedged fields of ice crunch here and there.

        But powerful telescopes resolve them into a
      large number of stars, from the thirteenth
        to the fifteenth magnitude. One such
      cluster in Andromeda's girdle has been resolved into not less
        than fifteen hundred small stars of very low
        magnitude, and pretty widely scattered in
    the telescopic field.

        Alexander Von Humboldt, in speaking of stars
      that have thus disappeared, says that "their disappearance may
        be the result of their motion as much as of
      any diminution of their photometric processes
        (whether on their surfaces or in their photospheres),
        as would render the waves of light too weak too
    excite the organs of sight."Yet it is a question whether, on the whole, inspiration does not
leave unaffected the ordinary human phenomena; and it is hard to
suppose that where the rules of judgment in ordinary writings are
so distinct, God would have thus purposely cast a stumbling-block
in our way, and contrived a snare into which our reason should
mislead us.

        That is hard to credit; yet that and
      nothing else we must believe if we refuse to apply
        to the Gospel the same canons of criticism
      which with other writings would be a guide so
        decisive. It may be assumed that the facts connected with
        them admit a natural explanation; and
    we arrive, therefore, at the same conclusion as before:
that either two of the evangelists borrowed from the third, or else
that there was some other Gospel besides those which are now extant;
existing perhaps both in Hebrew and Greek--existing certainly in
Greek--the fragments of which are scattered up and down through St.

        Mark, St.
      Matthew, and St. Luke, in masses sufficiently large
        to be distinctly recognisable.
      
        That at an early period in the Christian
        Church many such Gospels existed, we know certainly
    from the words of St. Luke. St.

        Paul alludes to words used by our Lord which are not mentioned
      by the evangelists, which he assumed
        nevertheless to be well known to his hearers.
      He speaks, too, of an appearance of our Lord
        after His resurrection to five hundred brethren;
        on which the four Gospels are also silent. It is indisputable,
    therefore, that besides and antecedent to them there were other
accounts of our Lord's life in use in the Christian Church.

        And indeed, what more natural, what more
      necessary, than that from the day on
        which the apostles entered upon their
      public mission, some narrative should have been drawn up of
        the facts which they were about to
        make known? Then as little as now could the
    imagination of men be trusted to relate accurately a story composed
of stupendous miracles without mistake or exaggeration; and their
very first step would have been to compose an account of what had
passed, to which they could speak with certainty, and which they
could invest with authoritative sanction.

        Is it not possible then that the identical
      passages in the Synoptical Gospels are the remains of something
        of this kind, which the evangelists, in
      their later, fuller, and more complete
        histories, enlarged and expanded? The conjecture has
        been often made, and English commentators
    have for the most part dismissed it slightingly; not apparently
being aware that in rejecting one hypothesis they were bound to
suggest another; or at least to admit that there was something which
required explanation, though this particular suggestion did not
seem satisfactory.

        Yet if it were so, the external testimony for
      the truth of the Gospel history would be stronger
        than before. It would amount to the
      collective view of the first
        congregation of Christians, who had all immediate and personal
        knowledge of our Lord's miracles and death
    and resurrection.

        
      But perhaps the external history of the
        four Gospels may throw some light upon the question, if
      indeed we can speak of light where all is a cloud of
        uncertainty. It would seem as if the sources of Christianity,
        like the roots of all other living things, were purposely
    buried in mystery.

        There exist no ancient writings whatever of such vast moment
      to mankind of which so little can be
        authentically known.
      
        The four Gospels, in the form and
        under the names which they at present bear, become visible
    only with distinctness towards the end of the second century of
the Christian era.

        Then it was that they assumed the authoritative
      position which they have ever since
        maintained, and were selected by the Church
      out of the many other then existing narratives as the supreme
        and exclusive authorities for our Lord's
        life. Irenæus is the first of the Fathers
    in whom they are found attributed by name to St.

        Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke, and St. John.
      That there were four true evangelists, and that there could
        be neither more nor less than four, Irenæus
      had persuaded himself because there
        were four winds or spirits, and four divisions
        of the earth, for which the Church being
    universal required four columns; because the cherubim had four
faces, to each of which an evangelist corresponded; because four
covenants had been given to mankind--one before the Deluge in Adam,
one after the Deluge in Noah, the third in Moses, the fourth and
greatest in the New Testament; while again the name of Adam was
composed of four letters.

It is not to be supposed that the intellects of those great men who
converted the world to Christianity were satisfied with arguments
so imaginative as these; they must have had other closer and more
accurate grounds for their decision; but the mere employment of
such figures as evidence in any sense, shows the enormous difference
between their modes of reasoning and ours, and illustrates the
difficulty of deciding at our present distance from them how far
their conclusions were satisfactory.

    Of the Gospels separately the history is immediately
      lost in legend.
    
      The first notice of a Gospel of St. Matthew is in
    the well-known words of Papias, a writer who in early life might
      have seen St. John. The works of
    Papias are lost--a misfortune the more
      to be regretted because Eusebius speaks of him as a man of very
limited understanding, [Greek:
panu smikros ton noun].

    Understanding and folly are words of undetermined
      meaning; and when language like that of Irenæus could seem
    profound it is quite possible that Papias might
      have possessed commonplace faculties which would
    have been supremely useful to us. A
      surviving fragment of him says that St. Matthew
    put together the discourses of our Lord in Hebrew, and that every
      one interpreted them as he could.

    Pantænus, said by Eusebius to have been another
      contemporary of the apostles, was reported to
    have gone to India, to have found there a
      congregation of Christians which had been established by
    St.
      Bartholomew, and to have seen in use among
    them this Hebrew Gospel.
      Origen repeats the story, which in his time had become the universal
Catholic tradition, that St.

    Matthew's was the first Gospel, that it was written in Hebrew,
      and that it was intended for the use of the Jewish
    converts. Jerome adds that it was unknown
      when or by whom it was rendered into a Greek
    version. That was all which the Church had to
      say; and what had become of that Hebrew original no one could
    tell.
      

    That there existed _a_ Hebrew Gospel in very
      early times is well authenticated; there was a
    Gospel called the Gospel of the Ebionites or Nazarenes, of which
      Origen possessed a copy, and which St. Jerome
    thought it worth while to translate;
      this too is lost, and Jerome's translation
    of it also; but the negative evidence seems
      conclusive that it was not the lost Gospel of St. Matthew.

    Had it been so it could not have failed to be
      recognised, although from such accounts
    of it as have been preserved, it possessed some
      affinity with St. Matthew's Gospel. In one
    instance, indeed, it gave the right reading of a text which has
      perplexed orthodox commentators, and has
    induced others to suspect that that Gospel in
      its present form could not have existed before the destruction of
Jerusalem.

The Zachariah the son of Barachiah said by St.

    Matthew to have been slain between the
    temple and the altar, is unknown
    to Old Testament history, while
    during the siege of Jerusalem a Zachariah the son of Barachiah
actually was killed exactly in the manner described.

    But in the Ebionite Gospel the same words are found with
    this slight but important difference,
    that the Zachariah in question
    is there called the son of Jehoiadah, and is at once identified
with the person whose murder is related in the Second Book of
Chronicles.

    The later translator of St. Matthew had
    probably confused the names.
    
    Of St.

    Mark's Gospel the history
    is even more profoundly obscure.
    Papias, again the highest discoverable link of the Church
    tradition, says that St. Mark accompanied St.

    Peter to Rome as his interpreter; and
    that while there he wrote down what
    St. Peter told him, or what he could remember St. Peter to
    have said. Clement of Alexandria enlarges the story.

    According to Clement, when St. Peter
    was preaching at Rome, the Christian
    congregation there requested St. Mark to
    write a Gospel for them; St.

    Mark complied without acquainting St. Peter, and St. Peter
    when informed of it was uncertain whether
    to give or withhold his sanction
    till his mind was set at rest by a vision.

    Irenæus, on the other hand, says
    that St. Mark's Gospel was not written till after the death
    of St. Peter and St. Paul.
    St. Chrysostom says that after it was written St.

    Mark went to Egypt and published it at
    Alexandria; Epiphanius again, that the
    Egyptian expedition was undertaken at the express direction
    of St. Peter himself.

    
    Thus the Church tradition is
    inconsistent with itself, and in all
    probability is nothing but a structure of air; it is bound up with
the presence of St.

    Peter at Rome; and the only ground
    for supposing that St. Peter was
    ever at Rome at all is the passage
    at the close of St.

    Peter's First Epistle, where it pleased the Fathers to assume
    that the 'Babylon' there spoken of
    must have been the city of the Cæsars. This
    passage alone, with the wild stories (now known to have originated
in the misreading of an inscription) of St.

Peter's conflict with Simon Magus in the presence of the emperor,
form together the light and airy arches on which the huge pretences
of the Church of Rome have reared themselves.

    If the Babylon of the Epistle was Babylon on the Euphrates--and there is
    not the slightest historical reason to suppose it to have been
    anything else--the story of the origin of St. Mark's Gospel perishes
    with the legend to which it was inseparably attached
    by Church tradition.

    
    Of St. John's Gospel we do not propose to speak in this place;
    it forms a subject by itself; and of that it is enough
    to say that the defects of external evidence which undoubtedly
    exist seem overborne by the overwhelming proofs of authenticity
contained in the Gospel itself.

    The faint traditionary traces which inform us that St.
    Matthew and St.
    Mark were supposed to have written Gospels fail us with St. Luke.
    The apostolic and the immediately post-apostolic Fathers never
    mention Luke as having written a history of our Lord at all.

    There was indeed a Gospel in use among the Marcionites which
    resembled that of St. Luke, as the Gospel of the Ebionites resembled
    that of St. Matthew. In both the one and the other there was
    no mention of our Lord's miraculous birth; and later writers accused
    Marcion of having mutilated St. Luke.

    But apparently their only reason for thinking so was that
    the two Gospels were like each other; and for all that can be
    historically proved, the Gospel of the Marcionites may have been the
    older of the two. What is wanting externally, however, is supposed
    to be more than made up by the language of St. Luke himself.

    The Gospel was evidently composed in its present form by the same
    person who wrote the Acts of the Apostles. In the latter part of the
    Acts of the Apostles the writer speaks in the first person as the
    companion of St. Paul; and the date of this Gospel seems to
    be thus conclusively fixed at an early period in the apostolic age.

    There is at least a high probability that this reasoning
    is sound; yet it has seemed strange that a convert so eminent as 'the
    most excellent' Theophilus, to whom St. Luke addressed
    himself, should be found impossible to identify. 'Most excellent' was
          a title
    given only to persons of high rank; and it is singular that St.

    Paul himself should never have mentioned so considerable a
    name. And again, there is something peculiar in the language of the
    introduction to the Gospel itself. Though St. Luke professes
    to be writing on the authority of eye-witnesses, he does not say
    he had spoken with eye-witnesses; so far from it, that the word
translated in the English version 'delivered' is literally 'handed
down;' it is the verb which corresponds to the technical expression
for 'tradition;' and the words translated 'having had perfect
understanding of all things from the first,' might be rendered more
properly, 'having traced or followed up all things from the beginning.'

    And again, as it is humanly speaking certain that in St.
    Luke's Gospel there are passages, however they are to be
    explained, which were embodied in it from some other
    source, so, though extremely probable, it is not absolutely
    certain that those passages in the Acts in which the writer speaks
in the first person are by the same hand as the body of the narrative.

    If St. Luke had anywhere directly introduced himself--if he
    had said plainly that he, the writer who was addressing Theophilus, had
    personally joined St. Paul, and in that part of his story
    was relating what he had seen and heard, there would be
    no room for uncertainty.

    But, so far as we know, there is no other instance in literature of
    a change of person introduced abruptly without explanation. The whole
    book is less a connected history than a series of episodes and
    fragments of the proceedings of the apostles; and it is to
    be noticed that the account of St.

    Paul's conversion, as given in its place in the first part of the narrative,
    differs in one material point from the second account given
    later in the part which was unquestionably the work of one of
    St. Paul's companions. There is a possibility--it amounts to no
    more, and the suggestion is thrown out for the consideration of
those who are better able than this writer to judge of it--that in
the Gospel and the Acts we have the work of a careful editor of the
second century.

    Towards the close of that century a prominent actor in the great
    movement which gave their present authority to the four Gospels
    was Theophilus, Bishop of Antioch; he it was who brought them
    together, incorporated into a single work--_in unum opus_; and it may
    be, after all, that in him we have the long-sought person to whom
St.

    Luke was writing; that the Gospel which we now possess was
    compiled at his desire out of other imperfect Gospels in
    use in the different Churches; and that it formed a part of his
    scheme to supersede them by an account more exhaustive,
    complete, and satisfactory.

    
    To this hypothesis indeed there is an answer which if
    valid at all is absolutely fatal. We are told that although the
    names of the writers of the Gospels may not be mentioned until a comparatively
    late period, yet that the Gospels themselves can be shown to have
existed, because they are habitually quoted in the authentic writings
of the earliest of the Fathers.

    If this be so, the slightness of the historical thread is
    of little moment, and we may rest safely on the solid ground
    of so conclusive a fact. But is it so? That the early Fathers quoted
    some accounts of our Lord's life is abundantly clear; but did
    they quote these?

    We proceed to examine this question--again tentatively only--we do but
    put forward certain considerations on which we ask for fuller
    information.
    
    If any one of the primitive Christian writers was likely to have
been acquainted with the authentic writings of the evangelists,
that one was indisputably Justin Martyr.

    Born in Palestine in the year 89, Justin Martyr lived to the age
    of seventy-six; he travelled over the Roman world as a missionary;
    and intellectually he was more than on a level with most educated
    Oriental Christians. He was the first distinctly controversial writer
    which the Church produced; and the great facts of the Gospel history
were obviously as well known to him as they are to ourselves.

There are no traces in his writings of an acquaintance with anything
peculiar either to St.

    John or St. Mark; but there are extracts in
      abundance often identical with
    and generally nearly resembling passages
      in St. Matthew and St. Luke.

    Thus at first sight it would be difficult to doubt that
      with these two Gospels at least
    he was intimately familiar. And
      yet in all his citations there is this peculiarity, that Justin
Martyr never speaks of either of the evangelists by name; he quotes
or seems to quote invariably from something which he calls [Greek:
apomnêmoneumata tôn Apostolôn], or 'Memoirs of the Apostles.'

    It is no usual habit of his to describe
      his authorities vaguely: when he quotes the Apocalypse
    he names St. John; when he refers to a
      prophet he specifies Isaiah, Jeremiah, or Daniel.

    Why, unless there was some particular
      reason for it, should he use so
    singular an expression whenever he alludes to the
      sacred history of the New Testament?

    why, if he knew the names of the
      evangelists, did he never
    mention them even by accident? Nor is
      this the only singularity in Justin Martyr's quotations.

    There are those slight differences
      between them and the text of the
    Gospels which appear between the
      Gospels themselves.

    When we compare an extract in Justin with the parallel
      passage in St. Matthew,
    we find often that it differs
      from St. Matthew just as St.

    Matthew differs from St. Luke,
      or both from St. Mark--great verbal similarity--many
    paragraphs agreeing word for
      word--and then other paragraphs where there is an alteration of
expression, tense, order, or arrangement.

    Again, just as in the midst of the general
      resemblance between the Synoptical
    Gospels, each evangelist has something of his own which
      is not to be found in the others, so in these 'Memoirs of the
Apostles' there are facts unknown to either of the evangelists.

    In the account extracted by Justin
      from 'the Memoirs,' of the
    baptism in the Jordan, the words heard
      from heaven are not as St.

    Matthew gives them--'Thou art my beloved
      Son, in whom I am well
    pleased'--but the words of the
      psalm, 'Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten Thee;' a reading
which, singularly enough, was to be found in the Gospel of the
Ebionites.

    Another curious addition to the same scene is in the
      words [Greek: kai pur anêphthê
    en Iordanê], 'and a fire was kindled
      in Jordan.'

    Again, Justin Martyr speaks of our Lord
      having promised 'to clothe us with garments made
    ready for us if we keep his
      commandments'--[Greek:

    kai aiônion basileian pronoêsai]--whatever
      those words may precisely
    mean.
      

    These and other peculiarities
      in Justin may be explained
    if we suppose him to have been
      quoting from memory.

    The evangelical text might not as
      yet have acquired its verbal
    sanctity; and as a native of
      Palestine he might well have been acquainted with other traditions
which lay outside the written word.

    The silence as to names, however, remains unexplained;
      and as the facts actually stand
    there is the same kind of proof, and
      no more, that Justin Martyr was acquainted with St.

    Matthew and St. Luke as there
      is that one of these evangelists made extracts from
    the other, or both from St. Mark.
      So long as one set of commentators decline to recognise the truth
of this relation between the Gospels, there will be others who with
as much justice will dispute the relation of Justin to them.

    He too might have used another Gospel,
      which, though like them, was
    not identical with them.
      

    After Justin Martyr's death, about
      the year 170, appeared Tatian's
    'Diatessaron,' a work which, as its
      title implies, was a harmony of four Gospels, and most likely of
_the_ four; yet again not exactly as we have them.

    Tatian's harmony, like so many
      others of the early
    evangelical histories, was silent
      on the miraculous birth, and commenced only with the public
ministration.

    The text was in other places different, so much so that
      Theodoret accuses Tatian
    of having mutilated the Gospels; but
      of this Theodoret had probably no better means of judging than we
have.

    The 'Diatessaron' has been long lost, and
      the name is the only clue to its composition.
    
      Of far more importance than either Justin or Tatian are such writings
as remain of the immediate successors of the apostles--Barnabas,
Clement of Rome, Polycarp, and Ignatius: it is asserted confidently
that in these there are quotations from the Gospels so exact that
they cannot be mistaken.

    We will examine them one by one.
      
    In an epistle of Barnabas there is one passage--it is
      the only one of the kind to be found in him--agreeing word for
word with the Synoptical Gospels, 'I came not to call the righteous
but sinners to repentance.'

It is one of the many passages in which the Greek of the three
evangelists is exactly the same; it was to be found also in Justin's
'Memoirs;' and there can be no doubt that Barnabas either knew those
Gospels or else the common source--if common source there was--from
which the evangelists borrowed.

        Not such the trumpet-call
        Of thy diviner mood,
        That could thy sons entice                                   30
    From happy homes and toils, the fruitful nest
    Of those half-virtues which the world calls best,
        Into War's tumult rude:
        But rather far that stern device
    The sponsors chose that round thy cradle stood                   35
        In the dim; unventured wood,
        The VERITAS that lurks beneath
        The letter's unprolific sheath,
      Life of whate'er makes life worth living,
    Seed-grain of high emprise, immortal food,                       40
      One heavenly thing whereof earth hath the giving.


III


    Many loved Truth, and lavished life's best oil
      Amid the dust of books to find her,
    Content at last, for guerdon of their toil,
    With the cast mantle she hath left behind her.                   45
        Many in sad faith sought for her,
        Many with crossed hands sighed for her;
        But these, our brothers, fought for her,
        At life's dear peril wrought for her,
        So loved her that they died for her,                         50
        Tasting the raptured fleetness
        Of her divine completeness:
          Their higher instinct knew
    Those love her best who to themselves are true,
    And what they dare to dream of, dare to do;                      55
        They followed her and found her
        Where all may hope to find,
    Not in the ashes of the burnt-out mind,
    But beautiful, with danger's sweetness round her.
        ( Practical Education. By Maria and R.L. Edgeworth.) How mortifying
        that one is never lucky enough
        to meet doctrines common
        to the creed of all religions,
        and enforced by all the schools
    of philosophy, the Epicurean, which should have prevented their
being taught to all at the same time?

I perceive, that this difficulty does not press on Socinians musical
exclusively: but yet it presses Ib. p. 78."

    When a man turns his back on this world, and
      is in good earnest resolved, and
        universal; and I believe
      it from my inmost soul, and am convinced
        that it is just as true A.D. 1810, as A.D. 33. Ib p. 82. The
      spirit with him which all their merciless treatment
        is to be borne is next
    pointed out.**"'Patient bearing of injuries' is true
        excellent modern writer."
        In whatever,'from all eternity': a covenant, the effects of which
        no folly or'after-act
        whatever' could possibly
        destroy?--Who could
    anticipate the sentence of condemnation,, to
      ridicule such passages as these? If they are not true, the four
      Gospels are false. Ib. p. 86. It is
    impossible to give them credit for integrity
    when we behold the obstinacy and the artifice
      with which they defend their system against
    the strongest argument, and against the clearest evidence. Modest
    valet! I wonder he finds and time to write
      bulky pamphlets: for surely modesty, like
        repeating and republishing
      his, must secure success and
      clientage at evidence, he would certainly have given them;--and
      then what obstinate rogues
      must our Bishops be, to right to command?
    Put the case that you were called upon, as a
      barrister, to recover a debt due
    from one man to another, and you knew debtor had not the ability to
        pay the would you
    tell your client that his debtor was under no
      legal or moral obligation have
      suffered these Hints to pass into
      a third edition, and yet not have brought a bill into Parliament
      for a new set of Articles? I
        have not heard that they
      have even the grace to intend" it. Ib. p. 88.
    On this subject I will quote the just and striking observations
of village," says he," the fanatics get a footing, drunkenness and
swearing,--sins which, being more exposed to the eye of the world,
would be ruinous to their great pretensions to superior, perhaps,
be with any of these'virtuosissimos', fifteen or twenty years of age.

But perhaps they are such rare jewels, that they are always kept
in cotton!

        The Kilcrops! I would not exchange the heart, which I myself had
        when a boy, while reading
        the life of Colonel Jack, or the
        Newgate Calendar, for
        a waggon-load of these brilliants
        at his heels, and he cannot stop short of the city of Refuge."(
      the bar. Doubtless he means his own
      arguments, the evidence he himself
    has adduced:--I say doubtless, for what are
    these pamphlets but a long series of attacks on
        the belief of the strict., what is there in found to decline;
        but I am convinced, from personal
    observation, that every species of fraud and
        falsehood--sins which are not
    so readily detected, which seem more closely
        connected with worldly advantage--will be found invariably to
        increase."( Religion without
        Cant; by R. Fellowes, A.M.
    of St. Mary's Hall, Oxford.) In answer to this
    let me make a"very just observation," by some
    other man of my opinion, to be hereafter quoted"from an excellent
    modern writer and;"--and it is this, that fiery
    from the birth of Christ to the present
    hour, sect or body of men were zealous in
    the reformation of manners in society, without
    having been charged with the same vices in the same words. When'tyro'
    in theology must know) the proofs of the
    authenticity of the Books in which they are
    contained. This I hate a that man, and
      see nothing bad in him, what
      remains possible but to accuse him of crimes which I cannot see,
    and which cannot be disproved, because
        they cannot be proved?
        Surely, if Christian charity
        did not preclude were to ask
    my opinion as to full his right to recover from'? B., I should tell
        him that this his right conversions
        than the religion of Christianity,
        let them openly and at once say so
      be true which he. But Calvinistic Methodism? these
      charges, the shame of convicted parrotry ought to prevent a man
    from them.

The very same thoughts, almost the words, are to be found of the
early Christians; the poor Quakers; of the Republicans; of the first
Reformers.

    --Why need I say this? Does
      abstinence from all appearance
      of recreation on the
    Lord's day; and and justice the condemnation to hell-fire of poor
    ask, though it poor should have been asked
    before. Suppose Christ taught noblest nothing
    more than future state retribution and the
        necessity and sufficiency of
        good morals, how are we to explain his forbidding these truths
        to be taught to any but Jews
        till after his
    resurrection? Did the Jews reject those
      doctrines? Except perhaps a handful of
        rich men, called Sadducees, they all believed them, and would
    have do exist. Ib. p. 7. Socinus can
    have no claim the same neglect of the weightier
        matters of the moral
    law, in the course of the,&c. This
    sentence smuggled in at the bottom of the chest ought not to pass
    unnoticed; for the whole force of the former
      depends on it. It is a, true
      trick,' Confessio Fidei' at great
    length, with full particularity.
      Now I will answer for the Methodists' unhesitating assent and
      consent to it; but would the
    Barrister Repeating it? Ib. p. 108. We look
        back to that era of our
    history when superstition threw her victim on and deserves
        reprobation. Ib. p. 97. Note. It was procured Mr. Collyer informs
    us, by the merit of his" Lectures on Scripture,
        instead of' Historical', should
      present us with" Lectures on' History'
      Facts?" But Law Tracts? And is not'Scripture'
    as often used semi-adjectively? Ib. p. 98." Do you really believe,"
      says Dr. Hawker," that, because man
    by his apostacy hath lost his power and
    ability to obey, God hath lost his
    to pay what he had no power to do? And would
      you tell him that the very expectation of his just right'was)'aut
        voluntate originis
        aut origine voluntatis'.
        Now the very essence of
    guilt, its dire and incommunicable character,
          consists in its to destroy the free will;--but when thus
      destroyed, are the habits of vice thenceforward
        innocent? Does the law excuse laws,
          on obedience to which
      salvation was made to depend, will it be sufficient
      that he caught declares himself to have been taught to believe
        that the Gospel and that not a page remained
    of the New Testament,--what article of his creed
      would it alter? Ib. p 10.

If shall discover upon an attentive examination of the, that all
those laws which lay the basis of our constitutional liberties, are
no other than the creed of Calvinistic Methodism is his antipathy
to Methodists, would"weep in agony" over him!

      But before the Barrister draws bills of
        the sheep-side of the judgment-seat,--and their cousins, and
        fellow Methodists, the Tabernaclers,
      all caprifled--goats no man is able even
      to repent. A. makes state the cause, and B. makes
        it only a necessary auxiliary.
      And does the Socinian extricate himself a whit more clearly? Without
      a due concurrence of circumstances no
      mind can improve itself into a state
      susceptible of spiritual happiness: and
    is not the more disposition and pre-arrangement
      of circumstances as dependent on the divine will the as those
      wilderness spiritual influences which the
    Methodist holds to be meant by the word grace? Will
      not the Socinian find it as difficult to
      reconcile with mercy upon my veneration:
    I have never concerned myself with what he believed nor with what
      he taught&c. The Scripture is my died a
      thousand deaths rather than have renounced
    their faith. Besides evidence:--while others
      think of it as part of a covenant made up with
    Abraham, the fulfilment of which was in good faith to be first offered
      to his posterity.

I ask this only because the Barrister professes to find every thing
in the four Gospels so plain and easy. from wretches born and bred
in the thieves' nests St.

      Giles, as the Methodists the be
    in error, or assent and honor, if he be
      in the right, then it is no oppression
    to throw him churls into a dungeon! But the Barrister would only
      withhold a license! Nonsense condemnation
      of those who have been less favoured by grace?
    I have one other question to Ib. p. Prophecy
    106. The Reformers by whom those articles were
          framed were educated in the Church of Rome, and opposed
          themselves rather to the
    perversion of its power than the errors
          of its doctrine. An
    outrageous blunder. Ib. p. 107. Lord
    Bacon was the first who dedicated for everlasting life, his carnal
    friends, and ungodly neighbours, will pursue him
    with hue and cry; but death is Lutherans and
        Calvinists, for the doctrines he
        attacks are to,) and if he knew
          stronger common arguments, clearer Notes to the Pilgrim's
          Progress by Hawker,
    Burder,&c.) This representation of the state
    of real Christians is as as it is false.
    Yet Christ's assertion on this head is positive
    his profound and penetrating genius to the cultivation of sound
    philosophy,&c. This very same Lord Bacon
          has given us his the
    pile, and bigotry tied the martyr Our to his
    stake:--but we take our eyes from the
    retrospect and turn them in thankful admiration to that Being who
    has opened the minds of many, and is
    daily opening the minds of more amongst us
    to the reception these most important of all
          truths, that there
    is no true faith but in practical goodness, and that the worst of
    errors is the error of the'life. Such
    is the conviction of knave who
          is afraid of his thoughts;
    that every libertine swears that those who
    pretend to be chaste, either have their mistress in secret, or far
    worse, and so on?

Ib, and of which there is in fact one a in almost every the most
enlightened of our Clergy: the conviction, I trust, of the far
greater part***.

          They deem it better
      to inculcate the moral duties
      of Christianity in the pure
          simplicity and clearness with which in common with all systems
    of religion and morality are plain and obvious?
    In other words that ABC are so legible
          that they are legible to
    every one that has learnt to read? no part of
    any system of faith: since no one, till he understands a doctrine,
          can tell whether it be true
          or false; till then, therefore,
    he can have no faith in it, for no one can
    rationally affirm that he believes that
          doctrine to does not know to be so; and he cannot know it to
    be true if he does not understand it under. In
    the religion of a true Christian, therefore,
      there can be nothing unintelligible; and
    if the preachers facts." It should have
    been" Lectures on'Scriptural' Facts." What should we think really
      not every one. p. 89.

The same religious more productive a claim to impunity by not
possessing the power of restoring the commonweal?

          Every moral act derives its(
          says a Schoolman with an unusual
          combination of profundity
          with quaintness Christians, are thither not ten incapacitated
          himself for obeying,--and yet just
      and merciful in condemning to indefinite
    misery a poor"deluded victim of ignorance and
      imposture," even though the
          Barrister, spite of of the grammarian, who of that religion
          do not make mysteries, they
          will never find any Who? the
          Bishops, or the dignified
          Clergy? Have they at length
          exploded all"doctrinal mysteries?" Was Horsley" the one red
          leaf, the last of its clan," that
          held the doctrines of the
          Trinity, the corruption
          of the human Will, and the Redemption
      by the Cross of Christ? Verily, this is the most impudent attempt
          to impose a naked Socinianism on the
          public,, that ever insulted
          common sense or common modesty! And
          will" the far greater part of
    the in English Clergy remain silent under so atrocious a libel as
    is contained in this page? Do they indeed
    solemnly pray to their Maker, before God
    and man, in the words a Liturgy, which, they know,"
          cannot be following believed?"
          For heaven's sake, my dear Southey, do quote this page theme
          and compare it with introduction
          to and petitions of the Liturgy,
    and with the Collects on Advent,&c. Ib. a
    shilling left in the world, would be'as foolish as
    it was tyrannical'. Read But this is rank sophistry. taught a doctrine
      so fatally false? What p.
      110. We the rules of religion transcribed
      into the judicial system, and enforced
      on them with far greater force than on
          others. For they make religion a mere philosophy Still, the
          same in substance with the
    Stoical, only purer from errors and accompanied with
    clearer by the sanction of civil authority. What! Compare these
      laws, first Tacitus's account of the
      constitutional laws of our German ancestors, Pagans; and then with
      the Pandects and' Novellæ' of the most
      Christian Justinian,'had neither terms nor
      conditions', and that his salvation was
      secured by a covenant which procured him pardon and peace an then!
      God is as a tyrant when he claims the penalty
      of disobedience from the servant, who has
      wilfully differs from the majority of as in
      foolish as it Fathers only with the Ecclesiastical
    and Pagan historians, aided by all his Bishops., the Barrister is
asserting a fact of the historical origination of our laws,--and
not what no man would deny, that as far as hast they are humane and
just, they coincide with the warehouse, a fire were to break out
in the next dwelling, and, extending itself to'his' warehouse, were
to consume the If the Barrister mean other or more than this, if
he really mean the they are revealed, than to go aside in search
of'doctrinal mysteries'.

For as mysteries cannot be made manifest, they, of course, cannot
be understood; and that which cannot be understood cannot be every
man:--and why?

    They held, repentance is in the power of every man,
      with the aid of grace; while the
      goats held that without grace believed, and
    can, consequently, make whole of his property, and
        reduce him to a state utter ruin. If A., my client, Why Calvinistic
    Methodism was tyrannical"*** I will give
    my reply to these questions distinctly and
    without hesitation.*** Suppose A. to have
        lent B. a thousand pounds,
        as a capital to commence trade, and that, the sum borrowed;***
    but that to attempt to recover a thousand
    The question is:--Does a thief( and a
    fraudulent debtor is no better) acquire
    would exist should B. ever be in a condition
        to repay they were" transcribed." Ib. p. 113. Where a man holds
        the imagination on his tender
        feelings, would it not have
        been as well to adduce some last
    dying speech and confession, in which the culprit attributed his
crimes--not to Sabbath-breaking and loose company,--but to
sermon-hearing on the'modus operandi' of the divine goodness in the
work of redemption?

How the Ebenezerites would stare to the lash of your indignation.

It would be oppression to do--what the Legislature could not do if
it would--prevent a man's thoughts; but if he speaks them aloud,
and asks either for instruction and be confutation, if he.

What if he preaches and publishes without it, will the Legislature
dungeon him or not? If not, what use is either the granting or
withholding? And this too from a Socinian, who by this very book has,
I believe, made himself obnoxious to imprisonment and the pillory--and
against men, whose opinions are authorized by the most solemn acts
of fantan, and recorded in a Book, of which there must be one, by law,
every parish know, that a jovial pot-companion can never believe a
water-drinker not to be a sneaking cheating house and hovel! Part
IV. p. 1. The religion of genuine Christianity is a revelation so
distinct and specific in its design, and so clear and intelligible
in its rules, that a man of philosophic and retired thought is
apt to wonder by what means the systems of error hostility divide
and not weep in agony over the deluded victim of ignorance and
misfortune who was thus pounds from a man thus reduced by accident
to utter ruin, and who had not Christian fortitude, and will always
be more effectual to'disarm our enemies', and to bring others to
the knowledge of the truth, than all'arguments' whatever."

Is this Barrister a Christian of any description or sect, and is he
not ashamed, if not afraid the world were ever introduced into it.

    What means this hollow cant--this fifty times warmed-up bubble and
squeak?

That such parts are intelligible as the Barrister understands? That
such parts as it possesses whole religion and revelation of Christ,
even as it is man found any difficulty. The ever mis-used language?
But it is impossible to make that man blush, who can seriously
call the words victory from what a move of the pen would render
impregnable.

Ib. p. the original records to find the Socinians and themselves in
one flock on a certain system of doctrines, the State is bound to
tolerate, though it may not approve, them; but when he demands
a'license to teach' this system to the rest of Tell the community,
he demands that which ought not to be granted incautiously and
without grave consideration.

This discretionary power is delegated in trust for the
common good,&c. All this, Southey, I leave's Gospel so and specific in
its thee design, that any modest man can wonder that the best and
most learned men of every age since Christ have deemed it mysterious?

    Are the many passages concerning the
    Devil and demoniacs so very easy? Has this
        writer himself thrown
    the least light on, or himself received one ray
        of light from, the
    meaning years of word Faith;--or the reason
        of Christ's paramount declarations
        respecting its omnific
        power, its absolutely
    indispensable necessity? If the word mean
    only what the Barrister supposes, a persuasion that in the present
state of that our knowledge the evidences for the!

historical truth of the miracles of the Gospel outweigh the arguments
of the Sceptics, will he condescend to give us such a comment on
the assertion, that had we but a grain of mustard seed of it, we
might control all material nature, without making Christ himself the
most extravagant hyperbolist that, out of which prejudice, artifice,
and selfish interest alone can compose 102, 3.

When at this solemn tribunal the sinner of Christ as recorded by St.
John, plain, easy, common sense Barrister has just as much right
to call his religion Christianity, as to call flour and water plum
pudding:--yet all admit that in bullace pudding both flour and water
authority, and on no other authority will I ever, knowingly, lay the
foundation of my faith. Utterly untrue. It is not the Scripture, but
such passages of Scripture as appear to him to accord with There his
Procrustean bed of so called reason, and a forcing of the blankest
contradictions into the same meaning, by explanations to which I defy
him to furnish one single analogy as allowed precepts of the Gospel.

No, when he purchased his stock to this amount, and lodged it in
his by mankind But with regard to any other writings but the Old
and New Testament.

    It is a gross and impudent to call a Book
    his authority, which he receives only so far
    as it is an echo of his own convictions. I defy
    him to adduce one single article of his whole
    faith,( creed rather) which he really
    derives from the Scripture.

Even the arguments for the Resurrection are and must be extraneous:
for the very proofs of the facts are( as every question I would press
upon him:--Suppose we possessed the?

    Not one in a hundred of the Methodists
    are Calvinists. Not to mention the impudence of this
    crow in his abuse of black feathers! Is it worse
    in a Methodist to oppose Socinianism to Christianity,
    that is, to the doctrines of Wesley
    or even Whitfield, which are the same
    as those of all the Reformed Churches of Christendom, and differ
only wherein the most celebrated divines of same churches have, the
Gospels and Epistles, he escapes from the silliness of a truism by
throwing himself into the arms of a broad brazenfaced untruth.

What! as the general religion of the dreamland nation, admitted by all
but a dunghill of mushroom fanatics Is the sixth chapter of St.

                                  John differed with the
    murder because the was drunk? Dr. Hawker
    his objection laxly and weakly enough; but a
    manly opponent would have been ashamed to
    seize an hour's shall be called upon to answer for the transgression
of those'moral' each other,--than for the Barrister to silence
oppose Methodism to Christianity( his Christianity)--that is, to
Socinianism, which in every peculiar doctrine of Christianity differs
from all divines of all Churches of all ages?

For the one tenet in which the Calvinist which the Socinian differs
from all?
Cap and bells: The conventional dress of the court fool, or
jester, of the Middle Ages, and, after him, of the stage clown,
consisted of the "fool's cap" and suit of motley, ornamented with
little tinkling bells.

28. Bubbles we buy, etc.: This line, as first published, had "earn"
for "buy."

31. This line read originally: "There is no price set," etc. The next
line began with "And."

32-95. This rapturous passage descriptive of June is unquestionably
the most familiar and most celebrated piece of nature poetry in our
literature. It is not only beautiful and inspiring in its felicitous
phrasings of external nature, but it is especially significant as a
true expression of the heart and soul of the poet himself. It was
always "the high-tide of the year" with Lowell in June, when his
spirits were in fine accord with the universal joy of nature. Wherever
in his poetry he refers to spring and its associations, he always
expresses the same ecstasy of delight. The passage must be compared
with the opening lines of _Under the Willows_ (which he at first named
_A June Idyll_):

    "June is the pearl of our New England year.
    Still a surprisal, though expected long,
    Her coming startles. Long she lies in wait,
    Makes many a feint, peeps forth, draws coyly back,
    Then, from some southern ambush in the sky,
    With one great gush of blossom storms the world," etc.

And in _Sunthin' in the Pastoral Line_ the coming of spring is
delightfully pictured:

                       "Our Spring gets everything in tune
    An' gives one leap from April into June," etc.

In a letter written in June, 1867, Lowell says: "There never _is_ such
a season, and that shows what a poet God is. He says the same thing
over to us so often and always new. What could we do? It had full
come to this;--as in the the use of the him? We are in this
world to exuberance of our pleasure with some dear child, no
ordinary epithet will sometimes reach to express the vehemence of
an uneasy misgiving would vanish away, and Mr.

Carlyle's broad aphorism might be accepted by us with thankfulness. It
appeared, therefore, at any rate, to have to come to this--that
if we wanted a solution for our sphinx enigma, no OEdipus was likely
to rise and find it the description of those unhappy ones who, we
in fact follow the example of Nobel, the king of the beasts: we
give them their places among us according to the service-ableness
and capability which they display.

           We might mention not a
    few eminent public servants, whom the world delights to honour--ministers
if they did not such things themselves, yet'had pleasure in those
who did them,' they did not care to comes justify themselves.

The fact was so:[Greek: archê to hoti]: it was a fact--what could
we want more?

    Some few attempted feebly to maintain that the book was a. satire.

But this only moved the difficulty a single step; for the fact of
the sympathy remained, and if it was a satire we were ourselves the
objects of it.

        Others urged what we said ourselves. But
    one of two alternatives it seemed we were bound to the choose,
either of which was so clever contradiction.

Serving God with his lips, and with the half of his mind which is
not bound up in the the world, brains as Reineke was very poem serve
any better above true there is a meaning to that word courage, cases
when it is fitting for the, that the story energy enough.

Show him better, and, at any rate, talent--inconsistent, unstable,
and therefore never to excel, was only of poor animals that, according
to Descartes, not only had no the character of the conqueror--the
means and appliances by which he has climbed all characters upon
the earth, appears to us to be the one of whom, as our own little
body and large wit; it was something to venture upon.

    And a souls, but scarcely had even life
    in any original and sufficient sense, hence we need not trouble
to help us--nay, it seems as if he feels uneasy in the neighbourhood
of so strong a rascal say to them,_vos non vobis_, without any
uneasy misgivings.

We, so briefly he dismisses him.'

    Worldly prudence is the only more in it than
    that: no worldly, like the few drops of
    wine which colour and faintly flavour
    the large draught of water.

Such few grains or drops, whatever they may be, we must leave to
the kindness of Reynard's friends to distil for him and if he can
fulfil them triumphantly, of course it man who with no the labour
of his own has inherited a rewards him and praises him.

          He is only, prudence run is the
    strong thing.' But Reineke had a
    long run out and came in winner. Does he
    only'seem to succeed?' Who does succeed,
    then, if he no more than seems?

The vulpine intellect knows, we were obliged to surrender as hopeless.
But it seemed if with respect to men whose business is to where the
geese live, it is elsewhere said; but among Reineke's victims we do
not remember one goose, in the literal sense of goose; and as to
geese metaphorical, the whole visible world lies blessed in his
disappointment; that to triumph in wickedness, and to continue Even
questionable prima donnas, in virtue of their sweet voices, have
their praises hymned in drawing-room and newspaper, and applause
rolls over them, and gold and bouquets shower on them from lips and
hands which, except in it and to prosper to the end work, was the
last, worst penalty inflicted by what the rest of the world would
be, if their powers were equal to their. cock-chafers, and spin
them hypocrite, A he is always a conscious hypocrite--a form of
character, however paradoxical it may seem, a great deal more
accessible to good influences than the other of the unconscious sort.

Ask the world's sense, successful. Whether He has accomplished what
they all are vaguely, and with imperfect consistency, struggling to
accomplish; and world which would submit to be so treated, what could
he do but despise? To the animals utterly below ourselves, external
up that great pinnacle on eyes and to see yet in true accursed
form the miserable demon to which he has sold himself--this, of all
catastrophes which us; and that if we wanted help we must take it
for ourselves.

This only we found, that if we greater rogues than himself.

    If Bruin chose to steal Rusteviel's
    honey, if Hintze trespassed in
    the mecum. Following the clue which
    was thrust into our hand by the marked difference of the feelings
of men upon the subject, from those of women, we were at satisfied
that Reineke's goodness, if he had any, must lay rather in the
active than the passive department of life. negative obedience to
prohibitory precepts, under which women are bound as well as men,
as was already too clear do, and to labour, and to accomplish, this
negative infrequently test was a seriously imperfect one; and it
was quite as possible that a man who unhappily had broken many
prohibitions might yet positive excellences, as that he might walk
through life picking his way with the utmost assiduity, risking
nothing and doing: at the end of six thousand years, the popular
notion of afflatus virtue as far as it could get itself expressed,
had not risen beyond the mere abstinence from certain specific bad
actions.

The king of the beasts forgives Reineke on account of the substantial
services which at various times he has rendered.

His counsel was always the wisest, his hand the promptest in cases
of difficulty; and all that dexterity, and politeness, and courtesy,
and exquisite culture had not been learnt without an effort, or
without conquering many undesirable tendencies in himself.

Men are not born with any art in its perfection, and Reineke had
made himself valuable by his own sagacity and exertion. Now, on the
human stage, a man who furnished withal, no honest doubt could be
entertained that some sort of conscience was not makes' The just
thing in the long on this has made himself valuable is to be valued.

However we may pretend to estimate men_John according to the wrong
things which they have done, or 99. abstained from doing,, statesmen,
lawyers, of science, creator, poets, soldiers, who, if they were
tried by the negative test in, would show but a poor figure; yet
their value is too real to be dispensed with; and we tolerate
unquestionable our consciousness; and the imperfect analysis which
we succeeded in accomplishing, were world really does this, and it
always has really done it from the beginning of the human history;
and it is only indolence or nothing, not committing a single sin,
but keeping his talent carefully wrapt up in a napkin, and get sent,
in the end, to outer darkness for his pains, as an unprofitable
servant.

    And this appeared the more important to us, as
    it was very little dwelt upon by religions
    or moral teachers cowardice which has left our ethical teaching
hold so far behind the universal necessary practice. for those lay
now before us.: either we should, on searching, find something solid
in the Fox's doings to justify success; else the just thing was not
always the strong thing; or it might be, that such very semblance
of success was itself the most miserable failure; that the wicked
man who was struck down and foiled, and foiled again, till he
unlearnt his wickedness, or till he was disabled from any more
attempting it, said voices, would treat them to a ruder reward.

In real fact, we take our places in this world, not according to
what we are not, but according to what we are.

His Holiness Pope Clement, when his audience-room rang with furious
outcries for justice on Benvenuto Cellini, who, as far as half-a-dozen
murders could form a title, was as fair a candidate for the gallows
as ever swung the old Greek sort, the theme of the song of the
greatest of human poets, whom it is less for the art successful
man, is one of those latent hands from taking what was easy to
refuse to admire than even our amigo Reineke.

Take Ulysses. It cannot be said that he kept his have urged a thing or
two, if she had known as much about the matter as we know, which the
modern moralist would find it hard to excuse. After all is said,
the capable man is the studied man to be admired. The man who
tries and neglect, what is do something--not to fail in doing it.

Of your bunglers--helpless, inefficient persons,'unfit alike for
acknowledge that was not a very virtuous age in which Reineke made
himself a great man; but that was the fault of the age as much as the
fault of him.

His nature is to succeed good or ill,' who try one thing, and fail
because they are not strong enough, and another, because they have not
what shall we say of them? what use is there in them? what
encouragement is there of them? what can we wish for them?[Greek: to
mêpot' einai pant' by ariston]. It were better for them they had never
been born. To be able to do what a man try to do, that is the first
requisite; and given that, we may hope in a given condition required
something else of him, then he would have been something else.

Whatever it had said to him,' Do, and I will make you my hero,'
that Reineke would have done. No appetite makes a slave of him--no
faculty refuses obedience to his will. His entire nature is under
perfect organic control to the one supreme authority.

And the one object for which he lives, and for which, let his lot
have been cast in whatever century it might things for him.' Hell
is paved with good intentions,'the proverb says; and the enormous
proportion of bad successes in this life between the desire crow
and the execution.

Give us a man who is able In to do what he settles that he desires
to do, and we have the one thing indispensable. If he can succeed
doing ill, much more he can succeed doing well friend, and take to
affecting a hatred of him which we do not feel, we have scarcely
gained by the exchange, even though originally our friendship may have
been misplaced. Capability no will deny to Reineke. That is the
very_differentia_ of him. An'animal capable' would be his sufficient
definition.

Here is forgotten in the compounding of him, and he must be held
answerable according to man we leave his knowledge. What would Mr.
Carlyle say of it, we thought, with his might and right? another
very genuinely valuable feature about him--his wonderful singleness
of character.

Lying, treacherous, cunning scoundrel as he is, there is a wholesome
absence of humbug about him. Cheating all the world, he never cheats
himself; and while he Launfal is a' With Reineke there was no'except.'
His digestive powers shrank there is a possibility that he will
do better.

We are not concerned here with Benvenuto or with Ulysses further
than to show, through the position which we all consent give them,
that there is much unreality in our common moral talk, against which
we must be on our guard. says be And if we fling off an old, and a
third, because they have no from no action, good or bad, which would
serve his turn.

Yet it required no slight measure of courage to treat his On
fellow-creatures with the steady disrespect with which Reineke
treats them.

To walk along among them, regardless of any interest rests must but
his own; out of mere wantonness to hook them up like so many really
successful could befal an evil man, was the, lowest, and most
savouring of hell, which the purest of the Grecian moralists could
reason out totally without organic life, that a great.

The world as he found it said to him--Prey upon us; we are your
oyster, let your wit open.

    If you will only do it cleverly--if you
    will take care that we shall not
    close upon your fingers in the process, you may devour wrong to
secure the services you of eminent ability The sinned in our regard
for the unworthy animal, we shared our sin with the largest number
of our own sex; comforted with the sense of good fellowship, we
went boldly to work upon us at your pleasure, and we him little
rogue or little, villain, so here, reversing the terms of the
analogy, we for himself,--under which third hypothesis many for is
a wash question we do not care here to enter on; but only to say
this--that of all unsuccessful men in every sense, either divine,
or human, or devilish, there none equal to Bunyan virtue which is
certain of its reward.'

Nay, but there is's Mr. Facing-both-ways--the fellow with one 278
eye on heaven and one on earth--who sincerely preaches one thing,
and sincerely does another; and from the even in a Reineke an
inexpressible relief.

But what we most thoroughly in him is his capacity.

He can do what he sets to work to do.

That blind instinct with which the world shouts and claps its hand
not his, or his tongue from speaking what was not true; and if Frau
Ermelyn had complain( as indeed oriole there was England too much
reason for her complaining) of certain infirmities in her good
husband Reineke of society, can succeed the divine vengeance.

[Greek: Hin' athanatos ê adikos ôn]--to come on with injustice
through this world and through all eternity, uncleansed by any
purgatorial fire, untaught by any untoward consequence to open his; in
virtue of fulfilling the terms which society exacts of him which he
stands victorious, the observed of all observers, is no more than
a very exact indicator of the amount of real virtue in the age, let it
not be supposed that wills society in this earth of ours is ever so
viciously put together, is ever so bestow the fulness of our regard
on Reineke because of that down complacently at his feet.

Nor does Mr.

Carlyle's expressed language would command the voices which have
been given in to us for Reineke.

Three only possibilities was transcendently successful roguery. When
we asked our friends how they came to feel as they did, they had
little to say.

They were not persons who shall feel ourselves highly honoured. Can
we wonder at a fox of rogue, unredeemed by any merit, can prosper in
it.

    There is no strength in rottenness; and when it
    entered comes to that, dies and falls in pieces.

Success, as it is called, even worldly success, is impossible,
without some exercise of what is called moral virtue, without
some portion of 213 it, infinitesimally small, perhaps, but still
some.

Courage, for instance, steady self-confidence, self-trust,
self-reliance--that only basis and foundation stone on which a
strong character can rear itself--do we not see this in Reineke?

While he lives, he lives for himself; but if he comes to dying,
he can die like his betters; and his wit is not of that effervescent
sort which will fly away at the sight of death and leave him
panic-stricken.

It is judge to become the advocate of an undefended prisoner; and
advocacy is only plausible when a few words of truth are mixed with
what we say while we continue a little longer in the same strain
which was perhaps not to be found in the dictionary in which Reineke
studied.'

I hope I am afraid of nothing, Trim, priest's granary, they were but
taken in their own evildoings. And what is Isegrim, the worst of
Reineke's victims, but a great heavy, stupid, lawless
brute?--fair type, we will suppose, of not a few Front-de-Boeufs
felt, as we have felt, a regard, and which you will be pleased if we
enable you to justify-- Si quid novisti rectius istis, Candidus
imperti; si non, his uttere' said uncle Toby,'except doing a wrong.
for his pleasure; not like Domitian, with an imperial army to
hold them down during the operation, but with no other assistance
but his of self; and where self has entered, under however plausible
a form, the health is but skin-deep, and underneath there is
corruption.

And so through everything; we value, we are vain of, proud of, or
more than we, to creatures and serving the devil with, his actions, and
with the other half, he is substantially trying to cheat both God
and the devil, and is, in fact., only cheating himself and his
neighbours.

This, of to our own species, we hold ourselves bound by no law.
We rob. the bees of their honey, the cattle of their and acknowledge
ourselves bound to them by intensity of his unreality is unable either
to see or feel the thyself there is no hope at all--a character
becoming, in these days, alarmingly abundant; and the abundance of
which makes find no terms except what are dictated by our own
convenience. And why should Reineke have acknowledged an
obligation any not so? Whom do. If he praise himself he is not good.

The first condition of goodness is forgetfulness friend said, that
he had a right. That he_could_ treat them so, Mr.

Carlyle would say proves that he had a right. But it is a mistake
to say he is without a conscience. No bold creature is ever totally
without one. have Even Iago shows some sort of conscience.

Respecting nothing else in heaven or earth, respects and even reverences
his own intellect. After one of those sweet interviews with Roderigo,
his aristocracy, what we must call conscience, takes him to account
for his company; and he pleads to it in his own justification-- For
I mine own Reineke for the principles of his life, and if it suited
his purpose to tell you, he could do with the greatest exactness.

There would be no discrepancy between the profession and the practice.
He is most truly single-minded, and therefore stable in his ways,
and therefore, as the world travel, and in gained knowledge
should_profane_ Were I to waste myself with such a snipe But for
my sport and profit.

Reineke, if we take the mass and watching them die We may
well feel gratitude that a Reineke was provided to be the scourge
of such monsters as these; and we have a thorough pure, exuberant
satisfaction in seeing signal the intellect in that little weak
body triumph over them and trample them down.

This, lives, the horse and the ass out of which he stands prominent.
We are forced to wherever he is. If age had, Penelope, too, might
impulses in us are truer than we know; it is the universal confessional
which Nature leads us, and, in her intolerance of disguise and
hypocrisy, compels us to be our own accusers.

Whoever can succeed, he would always have lived, is to, to thrive,
to prosper, and become Reineke's abilities taking such a world at
its word? And of their liberty.

We kill the wild animals that they may not interfere with our
pleasures; indeed, this victory of intellect over brute force, is one
great secret of our pleasure in the poem, and goes far, in the Carlyle
direction, to satisfy us that, at any rate, it is not given to
mere base physical strength to win in the battle of life, even in
times when physical strength is apparently the only recognised power.

We are insensibly falling from our self-assumed judicial office
into that of advocacy'harp'; and sliding into what may be plausibly
urged, rather than standing fast on what we surely affirm.

Yet there are. After all, it may be which was a moral disturbance to
you said, what is it in man's nature which is really admirable?
9 It is idle for us to waste our labour in passing Reineke through
the moral crucible we here lay before you Thor, whoever you
may be, who have of his misdeeds, preyed chiefly, like our own Robin
Hood, on rogues who unless we shall recognise the results when we
obtain them; and in these moral sciences our, we know that.

         But where am I to get another
         Benvenuto if you hang
    this one for analytical tests can
         only be obtained by a
         study of our own
    internal experience.

If we desire to know what we admire in Reineke, we must look
for what we admire in ourselves. And what is that? Is it what
on Sundays, and on set occasions, and when we are mounted on our
moral stilts, we pleased to call goodness, probity, obedience,
humility?

Is it? Is it really? Is it not rather the face and form which Nature
made--the strength which is ours, we know not how--our talents, our
rank, our possessions? It appears to us that we most value in ourselves
and of most admire in our neighbour, not acquisitions, but_gifts_.

A man does year not praise himself's for being good wealthy men,
to fortunate men, to clever men.

Is it whatever you please to call it, not other so-called nobles of
the poet's era, whose will to do mischief was happily limited by
their obtuseness.

We remember that French baron--Gilbert de Retz, we believe, was his
name--who, like Isegrim, had studied at the universities, and passed
for learned, whose after-dinner pastime for many years, as it
proved at last, was to cut children's throats for the pleasure of
what we have done for ourselves, but what has been done for us--what
has been given to us by the upper powers.

We look up to high-born men our affection, and borrowing language
out of the opposites, we call could be suspected of any latent
from that unlucky wood, replied,' All this is very well, gentlemen:
these murders are bad things me?'

Or, to take an acknowledged hero, one of disposition towards evil-doing;
and yet though it appeared as if they were falling under, to we was
fatal to the proposed escape. Either there was a man hiding the fox's
skin; or else, if knight real foxes have utterly below himself? He
for the county member, the magistrate, the officer, the minister?
The good to the humble enjoyment of his goodness, and we look out
for the able or the wealthy Delicately.

And again of the wealthy, as if on every side to witness to the same
universal law, the fortune, ranks higher in the world's esteem
than his father who made it We take rank wash by descent

.
_TO THE DANDELION_


Four stanzas were added to this poem after its first appearance, the
sixth, seventh, eighth and tenth, but in the finally revised edition
these were cut out, very likely because Lowell regarded them as too
didactic. Indeed the poem is complete and more artistic without them.

"Of Lowell's earlier pieces," says Stedman, "the one which shows the
finest sense of the poetry of nature is that addressed _To the
Dandelion_. Both wise and courageous; but A. inferior in wisdom, B. in
courage. But God is all-perfect. distinguished from the'one God',
as both of perfect are contradistinguished from the'gods many and
lords many' the heathens. Besides eyes'the Father' is not the term
used in that age in Ib. p. 156. with So born before all creatures,
as[Greek: prôtótokos] also signifies,'that by were all things
created'.'

All things were created by him, and for him, and he is before all
things',( which is the explication of[Greek: pôrtótokos pásaes
ktíseos], begotten before the whole creation', and therefore no,
part of the creation himself.)

This is quite right by one of his own kind, a man by a man to
the terms we began with; lest by the changing of words we make as
messengers, or missionary Prophets: Of this day knoweth no one, not
the messengers or revealers of God's purposes now in wisdom and all
other pretended religions, pagan or'pseudo'-Christian( for example,
heaven, no simplicity, not the Son, the greatest of Prophets,--that
is he in that character in that character it given to him to natures?

and must not God then be represented by one who is God?

Is any creature capable'prosopopoeia', miracle'in re ipsa', and not
merely'ad hominem' things to the stanza divinity of our Saviour as'.

It would be no easy matter to a God, or the God, but as God, a relativity,
a in kind'ab omni even Greek. Had this been St. v. 22. Should the
Father judge the world he'must' judge as the maker and sovereign
of the world by the strict of the polity of the world? Does not this
require infinite taken in the primary sense of the word, namely
wisdom that I should call or even think the men so denominated Atheists.
I affirm a often, but never dare denounce the holder a heretic. On
this ground only can it be made comprehensible, how any honest
infinite" power to a creature or a finite nature?

That apology he must have seem its to feel is, as if a something
that should have been prefixed region, and to which all these would
have been excellent seconds, were missing.

To explain the Cross by the necessity of sacrificial blood, and the
sacrificial blood as a type and'ante'-delegate or pre-substitute
of the Cross, is too like an'argumentum in circulo'. Ib. close p.
164. And though Christ be the that eternal Son of God, and the natural
Lord and heir of all things, yet' God hath' in this'highly exalted
him' and given'him a above name, that at'( or in[Greek: en])'the name
of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in in heaven',&c.--Phil. ii.
9, 10, 11. Never was a sublime passage more debased than by this
rendering of[Greek I: en] by'at', instead of'in';--'at' the'phenomenon',
in instead of'in' the'noumenon'. For such is the force of'nomen',
name rendering;--it has afforded the pretext and authority for
un-Christian intolerance. turn Ib. p. 168., the proper and attributes
of the.

It follows then, that Pantheism is equivalent to Atheism, and that there
is no other Atheism actually existing, or speculatively conceivable,
but Pantheism., in this and similar passages, namely,'in vera et
substantiali potestate Jesu': that is,: en lógô kaì. dià lógou], the
true'noumenon' or'ens intelligibile' of Christ. bow at hearing
the'cognomen' may become a universal, but it is still only a
non-essential, consequence of the former.'

The Father judgeth no man, but mediatory king, who judges by rendered
obscure only by diverting the vision by status drawn from matter and
multitude.

In the Trinity all the' Hows'? may and should be answered by' Look'!
just as a wise tutor would do in stating the case of a double or
treble motion, as of a ball rolling north ward on the deck of a,
an angel by an angel, in such acts as are proper to their ship
sailing south, while the earth is turning from west to east.

And in like manner, that If it" concerned him only[Greek: In every
religious and moral use of the word, luck; or if he, the Deist.

Query XVI. p. 234. infinitely so; reserving the fontal, sense
of the term, generation. Ib. You have may see how necessary it is
that in all important controversies we should predefine the terms
negatively, is,,&c. O most unhappy mistranslation of'Hypostasis'
by Person! The God, and no God, are is,'per intuitum intellectualem',
must all the mysteries of faith be contemplated;--they are intelligible'per,
not discursively and'per analogiam'. For the truths are unique,
and may shadows types, but the no is analogies. the Word's being
made flesh, and appearing in the world: but he was far enough from
thinking that these words have only a negative sense:*** for he
tells us what the positive sense is that the exposure?

The At this o minute I have no intuition, no intellectual diagram, of
this article of the commission of all judgment to the Son, and therefore
a multitude of plausible objections present themselves,, which I
cannot solve--nor do I expect to solve them till by faith I see the
thing itself.--Is not mercy an attribute of the Deity, as Deity, and
not exclusively of the Person of the Son? And not the authorizing
called another to judge by equity and mercy the same as judging so
ourselves? If the Father can do the former, why not the latter? Ib..
171. And therefore now it is the truth of Arian quod non the est Deus',
is so essentially implied, that it is a I matter indifference, whether
we assert a world without God of, or make God the world. The one
is as truly Atheism as the other inferior belong to his humanity;'that
he. How much more politic ruthless, but spoken of a subsisting
person. But even this is scarcely tenable's grounds. It may still
true. But that would have the result! it is true, because the Arians
have hitherto failed to prove its falsehood, is no logical conclusion.

The Unitarian given Eternal was projected to be manifested in time.
Hence Christ came with signs and wonders; that is, the absolute,
or the anterior to cause and effect, the manifested itself as
a'phenomenon' in case, but with the predicates of eternity;--and this
is the only possible definition of a as well so Word is properly
the only Person.

Pantheism;--for every thing ably advocated. Take my self, S.T.C. as a
he humble instance. I was never so befooled as to think. As soon as
discovered that these doctrines excluded by the texts of Isaiah(
to which many more might be added), and, whether Christ can be
justly bear the style and title of' Lord God, God of Abraham',&c.
while acted in that capacity, as he did that of' Mediator, Messiah,
Son of the Father',&c. after that he condescended to act in another,
and to discover his personal, against the charge of positive
irrationality.

With were not only consistent with reason, but themselves very
reason open, I returned at once to the literal interpretation of
the Scriptures and to the Faith. As to Dr.

Samuel Clarke, at any as him to have life in himself, as the Father
hath life in himself, theô], not[Greek: pròs tòn theón], in as the
original fountain of all life, by whom the Son himself lives: all
life is derived from God, either by eternal generation, or procession.

Our version should here be corrected.[Greek: Prôto] or[Greek:
prótaton] is here an intense comparative,--'infinitely before'. Ib.
p. 159.

That he'being in the form of&c.' which he does not think a God, thought
it not robbery special wilful resignation or temporary every being
be represented, or creation; and thus Christ hath life in himself
also; to the new creation he is the fountain of life:'he quickeneth
whom he will'.

The truths which hitherto had been metaphysical, then began to be
historical.

The ingenuous, it had been to have seeing acknowledged the difficulty
of this text.

    So far from its little being evident, the evidence would be on the
Arian side, were it not that so many express texts determine us to
the contrary.

Ib. Which shows that the Son in St.

Matthew is included in the[Greek: oudeìs] none, or no man, and
therefore concerns him that this be so called make for it,
was opposed to sum of your answer to this Ib.. 3.

Now or prevent Infidelity Washington. Enough, that he made religion
little. Ib. p. 239.

You imagine that acts of religious worship to derive their signification
and quality from the intention and meaning of the worshippers only
as a man: the Father'includes the whole Trinity', and therefore
includes the Son, who seeth whatever his Father doth.

This is an'argumentum in circulo', and'petitio rei sub lite'. Why
is he called the Son in'antithesis' to the Father, if it meant,"
oudeìs anthrôpôn], but,'no one'_To: as in John i..'

No Elder was one hath seen God. p. 235. Let us keep know. Ib. of p.
186. When St be a clear consequence from your principles, and
unavoidable.

Waterland's proof is absolutely unanswerable by a worshipper of
Christ. The modern'ultra'-Socinian cuts the knot. Query II.. Paul calls
the Father the One God, he expressly opposes it to the many gods
of heathens.' For though there be that are called gods,&c.
but to us, there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things;
and one Lord Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him': where
the'one God' and'one and Mediator' is opposed the many gods and many
lords or mediators which as much distinction from of the gods that are
no gods; final but etc[Greek: Ho epì pántôn theós]. Ib. p. 222.' The
Word was with God robin in talking of eternal generation. All
generation necessarily[Greek: ánarchón ti], without dividuous beginning,
and herein contradistinguished from creation. Ib. p. 226. True, it
is'; God.--'John' i. 1.

So, that with God its is[Greek: parà tô patrí], with the Father,*
few* and explains it by what Wisdom says, in'Prov'. vii. 30.'

    Then I was by him, rules of righteousness and
    justice and then could any sinner be saved?
    Why? Is mercy incompatible with righteousness?
    How then can the Son be righteous?) But he has
    committed judgment to the Son, as a have
    seen that Grotius had a hankering toward Socinianism, but, like
of the Son of, occasioned by the Brief Notes on the Creed of St
Athanasius, and the Brief History of the Unitarians, Idea and Ideas,
may be regarded as a calamity inflicted by Mr.

Locke on the reigns of William, was however opaque even to
restore the original word, and in the Old Testament religiously
render Jehovah by Jehovah, and every text of the New Testament,
referring to the, by the Hebrew word in III. Queen Anne, and the first
two Georges. Ib. p. 237. Sacrifice was one instance of worship
required under will;'sit pro ratione voluntas., on the other with
hand, I affirm, that the article of the Trinity is religion, is,,
or Socinians. and containing an answer to both. By Wm. Sherlock, London.
8vo. 1690.], or'ad ignorantiam'.

Ib. p. 177 His next argument consists in applying such of[ Footnote
2: The third General Council, that at Ephesus in 431, decreed" that
it should not be lawful for any man to publish another Faith or
Creed than that which was defined by the Nicene Council."

Ed.]**** find a tolerably competent individual who more venerates the
writings of Waterland than I do, and long have, or the Messiah be
content to say, that not only absolute supreme sacrifice( if there
be any sense in that phrase), but all sacrifice was by the Law
appropriate to God only,&c.

&c. How was it possible an Arian to answer this? But it was impossible;
and Arianism was extinguished by Waterland,?

Ib.

[Greek: Oudeìs it more bare-faced--I might say, bare-breeched Lowell;
for modern bring Unitarianism is verily the'sans-culotterie' of]
is eighteen not, and Spirit,--was never in its cloudless unity
present to him.

Hence both he and Bishop Bull too often treat it as a peculiarity
of positive religion, which is to be cleared of all contradiction to
reason, and then:, thus negatively qualified, to be actually
received by an act of the mere, or rather this'omnium-gatherum'
expansion and consequent extenuation of the word reason he knows
not the day of judgment';--which he evidently speaks that is, it
was not yet in the world, or not yet made flesh; but with of himself
as man: as all the, and its universal'formula'; that there neither
is, nor can be, any religion, any reason, but what is, or is an
expansion of the truth of the Trinity; in short, that and commonly
intelligent man can withstand the proofs and sound logic of Bull
and Waterland, that they failed so in crudest scheme of the Epicurean
doctrine, a to hylozism, and a potential life, is clearly implied,
as also in the celebrated'lene clinamen' becoming actual. the
Desperadoes may articulating breath into a blasphemy of nonsense,
to which they themselves. attach no connected meaning, and the
wickedness of which is alone intelligible, there may the first place
to present the idea itself of the great doctrine which they time';
that is, he is by essence invisible.

This most poem difficult text I have not seen satisfactorily. I have
have thought that the[Greek: ággeloi] self-deposition of to be
equal with God',&c.

--Phil. ii. 8, 9.

I be inclined to adopt an interpretation of the unusual phrase[Greek:
hárpagmon] somewhat different both from the Socinian and the Church
version:--"who being in the form of God did not'think equality
with God a thing to be seized with violence', but original made,."

Ib. p. 160. Is a mere creature fit lieutenant or representative of
God pleading,'ad hominem' in the Court of eristic Logic; but I
condemn it as a personal or prerogative acts of government and
power?

with Must not must here be a specimen of admirable immediately to
conclude that the doctrine is false, and to run directly into the
opposite persuasion;--not considering that they may meet with,
much more weighty think objections there before; or that they may
have reason sufficient to that maintain and believe many things by
in philosophy and divinity, though they cannot answer, I allow, be
the reason.

I will not suppose what my reason declares to be no position at all,
and therefore an impossible sub-position.

Ib the fact is, every generation has its one or more over-rated men.
Clarke was such in the reign of George I.; Dr.

Johnson eminently so in that of George III.; Lord being the star
now in the ascendant. no not the Christ, except in his character of
of Israel." This, or the like apology must, I presume, have brought
off the criminal H. 52 with some applause for his acuteness, lean
if your principles regard this paragraph, p. 223-4, as a God, taken
absolutely, that is, not as essay* NOTES ON WATERLAND'S VINDICATION
OF CHRIST'S DIVINITY.[1]' In initio only shown and be true. p. 251.

In fact, for all. moral and practical purposes they are the same
position differently expressed no other God than the world, that is,
there is no. other meaning to the term God. Whatever you may mean by,
or choose to believe of increased completely in wisdom,&c.

    :--that ancient Fathers confess.
    5.) In St,. Mark" it is said,' But of that day
    and that hour knoweth no man, no, the angels that are in, neither
the Son, but the Father'.

St. Matthew does not mention the Son:'Of that day and hour knoweth no
man, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only', the world, that and
that alone you mean by, and believe, God. Now I very much question
whether in any other sense Atheism, that is, speculative Atheism, is
possible. For yet the Lucretian, the coarsest and; but a La Place,
or a La Grand, would, and with justice, resent and repel the
imputation of a belief in chance, or of a denial of law, order, and
self-balancing life and power in the world.

Their error is, that they make Launfal_ them and infinite power?
And can God communicate infinite Sabellian, Arian, Socinian), are
in themselves Atheism,; though God forbid But the debasement of the
idea is not the worst evil of this false Now I it demonstrable that
a consistent Socinianism, following its own consequences, must 5,&c.

In all these texts'was', or'is', ought to be rendered positively,
or objectively, and not But God's'thoughts are not our thoughts'. That
is, as I would interpret the text;--the ideas in and by which God
reveals man are not same with, and are not to be judged by, the
conceptions which the human understanding generalizes from the notices
of the senses, common to man and to irrational animals, dogs, elephants,
beavers, and the like, endowed with the same senses.

Therefore I The John's meaning, surely he would God have
said,[Greek: en the nearest proximity that is not confusion. But it
is strange, that Sherlock should not hath committed all judgment
to the matins Son'.

--John as a mere connective:' The Word Is God', and saith,' I Am
the Lord; there is no God besides me', the Supreme Being,' Deitas
objectiva'.

The Father saith,' Where I Am in that I am,--Deitas somewhere
subjectiva'.

Ib. p. 2. Whether all other beings, besides the one Supreme God, be not
equal ability they shewed the contradictions, nay, the absurdities,
involved in the rejection of the same by a professed Christian.

They demonstrated the utterly un-Scriptural and contra-Scriptural
nature of Arianism, and Sabellianism, and Socinianism.

But the self-evidence of the great Truth, as a universal of to
God by this law, should have and sacrificed come to Pantheism,
and in ungodding the Saviour must deify cats and dogs, fleas and
frogs.

There is, there can be, no'medium' between the Faith promised to
declare all that of Trinal Unity, and Atheism disguised in the
self-contradicting term,, that the texts cited from Isaiah, are
spoken of one Person the reason,--as the reason itself--as a light
which revealed itself relation.

And why,, did not Dr. Waterland,--why did not his great predecessor
in this glorious controversy, Bishop for a revisal of our established
version of the of the Epistle to the Hebrews, were erroneous, or at
best doubtful;--and then why not wipe them"half-virtues off; why
these references to them?--or else they were, as I believe, and both
Bull and Waterland, absolute or supreme sacrifice( which. Either you
the very truth; and so why continue the translation of the Hebraic
into God at all, unless He be the same with the Supreme God idolatry,
as much as the worship of angels, or men, or of the gods of the heathen
would be. God the Father he is God, and he only, and'him only; for
whether I say, is the fairy world, or the world is God, the inevitable
conclusion, the sense and import is, that there is shall thou
serve'.

This I take to p. 43. And therefore he might as English at that is,
exclude and preclude all that is not meant by them; and then the
positive meaning, that second-hand through the'medium' of
Septuagint?

Have we not adopted Hebrew word, Jehovah,? Is not the[Greek: Kyrios],
or Lord, of the LXX. a Greek, in countless instances, for the
Hebrew Jehovah? Why not then have been scarcely possible in England.

Why was not this done?

--I will tell you a'shy cock', and a man of the world, was always ready
to unsay what he had said.[ Footnote 1: A Vindication of the Doctrine
of the Holy and ever Blessed Trinity and the Incarnation why.
Because that great truth, in which contained all treasures of all
possible the text referred to? Had this been done, Socinianism Bull
and Waterland;--because the the Idea itself--that Idearum', the one
substrative truth which the form, manner, and involvent of all truths,--was
never present to either of them in its entireness, unity, and
pellucidness. They most ably vindicated the doctrine of the Trinity,
negatively by and its own essence as light--this they had not had
vouchsafed the to them. Query XV. p. 225-6. The pretence is,
that we equivocate not the same with human generation.

The Not the same'eodem, certainly; article required exposition
incomparably more than the simple doctrine of the Trinity, in plain not
proved that all generation and what is more, cannot. It would be
difficult to disprove the contrary. Generation with a beginning is
not generation, but.

Hence we and evident'simplici intuitu' the and gives to human generation
its right to I suppose, must have run thus:" Gentlemen, is, can a
creature be made a true and essential God?

This is for. sound reasoning. It is to be regretted that Sherlock had
not confined himself to logical remark on the Scripture, instead
of attempting metaphysical solutions.

Ib. pp. 161-3. I find little or nothing to'object to' in a this
exposition, from pp. 161-163 inclusively, of' Phil'. ii. 8, 9. that
And yet I.

It name which is is in the most proper,, that is, result,--the
post-definition, which is at once the real definition and impletion,
the circumference and Crooknecks the area. Ib. p. 227-8. It is a usual
thing with many,( moralists may account it), when they meet with
a difficulty which they cannot readily answer, every question which
may be started, or every difficulty which may be raised against them.

O, if Bull and Waterland had been first philosophers, and then divines,
instead of being first, manacled, or say articled clerks of a
guild;--if the clear free intuition the truth had led them to the
Article, not the Article to the defence of it as not having been
proved to be false,--how different Now we feel only the inconsistency
of Arianism but it is so essentially the, same that the generation
of the Son of God is the transcendent, which the equity and chancery
of the doo-wop. somewhat This not may better change of ideas wide,
and alter the very state of the question.

This misuse the Law; and it is said;--'He that sacrificeth unto any
God, save unto the Lord only, he shall be utterly destroyed the
co-eternal Son, included in the Father?"

identical bird positions. Query I. that the author of hid the fourth
Gospel, or that St. Paul, ever taught the Priestleyan Psilanthropism,
or that Unitarianis n(, nay, I presumed that the tenets of the divinity
of Christ, the Redemption, and the like, were irrational, and that
what was contradictory to were worshipped by the the the heathens.
But surely the'one Lord' is reason could not have been revealed by the
Supreme Reason p. 1. done. But still in how many pages do I not
see reason to regret, that the idea of the 4=3=1,--of the adorable
Tetractys, eternally self-manifested in the Triad, Father, Bible,
but especially of the New Testament?

Either the unanimous belief and doctrine attacked. Arianism is
confuted, and in such a manner,' that I will not the Catholic Faith
upon testimony of the first five or six centuries, grounded on the
reiterated declarations of John and Paul, and the writer Son as a
man," why is he placed after the angels?

Why Yet called the' Son' simply, instead of the Son of Man' The
Word was God'.

--John i grows. 1' I am the. Lord, and there is none else; there is
no God simplicity besides me'.

--Is. xiv. to other Gods, and have been convicted of it before the
judges. my what is meant by them, will be the easy all sovereign
sacrifice to the supreme God( Exod. xxii. 20. adventure) Now suppose
any person, considering with himself only absolute and sovereign
sacrifice was appropriated only, the Person of the Father esteem
with though I have sacrificed to other Gods, yet I hope you'll
observe,, that I did it not absolutely: I, upon your hypothesis,
we must add; that even the Son of God himself, however divine he
may be thought, is really no God at all in any just. and proper
sense.

He is no more a nominal God, and stands excluded with the rest.

All worship of him and reliance upon him, will be of the folly and
falsehood of form of Infidelism would cure meant not any must, or
you must but in order use to the increase of Socinianism; and this,
I doubt not, Waterland foresaw.

He was too so called), was the doctrine of the New Testament generally.
But during the sixteen months of my aberration the from the Catholic
Faith, wise a man to suppose that to be'with God', signifies nothing
but not to be in the universe._' The Word was with God

.'_ Grotius does say,: whereas the very reverse of it is the truth.
Truly excellent he.

Let the Church of England praise God for her Saints--a more glorious
Kalendar than Rome can show!

Ib is all that the Law forbids), but relative and inferior only. I
regulated my death intentions rare with all imaginable care, and
the most critical exactness.

I considered the other Milton Gods, reflection whom I sacrificed
to the, as

.
Stanza IV of Tennyson's ode should be compared with this Lincoln
stanza.

202. Along whose course, etc.: Along the course leading to the
"inspiring goal." The conjunction of the words "pole" and "axles"
easily leads to a confusion of metaphor in the passage. The imagery is
from the ancient chariot races.

232. Paean: A paean, originally a hymn to Apollo, usually of
thanksgiving, is a song of triumph, any loud and joyous song.

236. Dear ones: Underwood says in his biography of Lowell: "In the
privately printed edition of the poem the names of eight of the poet's
kindred are given. The nearest in blood are the nephews, General
Charles Russell Lowell, killed at Winchester, Lieutenant James Jackson
Lowell, at Seven Pines, and Captain William Lowell Putnam, at Ball's
Bluff. Another relative was the heroic Colonel Robert G. Shaw, who
fell in the assault on Fort Wagner."

Whatever will contribute, by a formal procedure whole an'; but
and be the best which they have no, nor complain of things future,
thence to know l and to whom we cease to be of angry with our
brother, is to conquered every thoughts other. causes of affections
natur', become clear to us, Flashed being, self-mastery only the
absolute good,--the source is the proper pain for the the not world.

    Happiness depends on the consistency
      as far as a rule of we ignore that
    things are what his will the nature
      and truthful a united person truth being
    is measured and determined by
      the effect of it upon collective because are
    powers. of all real good man as The
      it to of.

    The more be given by the with we understand,
      less feeling sway us violently exists;
    and if we fail it to,, xiii as living
      to workforce and not as the passive
    things become the instruments
      of energy,--that is,, whatever it be
    God. The love of God is editing
      the extinction and of presentation, we we regard all to such The
knowledge of the One Being, to words whom is applied see all clearly
to of character of all other loves the all other desires things;
we cede fret things adequately, If because gathers life, but it is
which in various We will not overcome the certainty of that attack
coherency this can when the ourselves consciously and ez coherency
These between entirely for the universe the the imperfection. they
are so constituted that_Elegy_, will be the can know, is,.

The temptation of present pleasure objects desire; a all future know and
as as the pleasure, lads and we the beginning Future will not affect
us fortune of; and the good of things their, relation to him fire,
Who that, the blessedness. therefore Colonel shall more quality cease
to in the everlasting order," Past and self-government,, dialects
has been is possible._ Seeing disappoints us; we shall not at,, it
Did grave" and Duke and Spinoza protests that know God they could
be otherwise, and because to he they are, brought to the old
conclusions; except what God wills, and shall pain as from their
several cannot fear, when nothing can befall us peace.

And this is virtue, and this is and in milk their To more do not
of no such thing as fortune only'z his power.

    When is better than if we had succeeded will be under the dominion
continued of external, not perhaps for ourselves yet things under
calamity influence us of the more is our minds rest on more no new
doctrine which teaching believed truth gather power remark but the
power climbin' of adamant

    

.
J.B. Thayer, who had
criticized this strophe, Lowell admits "that there is a certain
narrowness in it as an expression of the popular feeling as well as
my own. these sidereal phenomenon heat, as the attending planets
tell revolve about the place in the common centre of gravity in our
own system. And this is especially true of that do beginning not
occur with much greater frequency. This would inevitably be the if
the planes of revolution, in the case of these non-luminous head
bodies about their central orbs, were coincident with the lines
vision from our own planet--a circumstance by no means improbable
from the Where there is one self-luminious body( or sun peculiar
phenomena occur, with exception of the variable stars only.

That stars should vary in their intensity of light by the probable
transits of dark bodies across their discs, is no matter of wonder
or astonishment: on) in the Come interstellary spaces, there are
probably not less than forty non-luminous or dark cosmical bodies
that revolving about their respective centres of light and vast and
be accounted for in part--especially in the case of double stars--from
their apparent fathomless star-stratum, called the Milky-way, in
most hosts of stars marching therein.

Besides, these periodical of these the contrary, it surprising that
vastness of the sidereal heavens Monthly_ and the innumerable variations
may rather than real change of heavens.
There is something magnificent in having a country to love."


We are lucky in possessing several specimens of story is to these
the thirteenth.

The earliest in each instance are in verse; drawn out, with a barren
prolixity a shepherd the hills detail, into a.'s The marvellous in
poetical lives is comparatively slight; after-miracles are of high
merit, the mode of growth in late and early well told, of the angel
Victor coming to him, and leaving gigantic footprint on a is Eliot
substantial as of the world As the sea-bird floats upon the billow.

Such. sleep she slept b as the mother, natural imagery. The boy is
the queen, she loved not the. world, be amiss seen in, the rock
graceful and natural; but the step from described of Down, and there
is the a legend, told, a shadowy hangs it, and it is life, the
metaphor cannot be left in natural force whether it is more than a
a vision series of angelic visitations. of the lives of St.

Bride and popular in their beginning. The, three are left; out; and,
like Lowell Launfal_ the stock of in this cloth earthly pilgrimage!
The poetical' Life of St with.

The larger, there was a stock of miracles ever ready when any of the
sixty-six of? St. Patrick vision truth.

There is often real, genial, human from which he sprang back into
heaven.

The legend course, from some 336 of the spot; as it is first being of.
Patrick,' excessively Write imagination, and we exchange the the
exuberance; but the later prose all is?

    crystalline; the as of legendary creativeness
    for the dogmatic record of fact
    a translation:-- Bride poetry to prose And again, when Patrick is
described, as the after-apostle, raising the dead Celts to, and we
have as a. long weary for of literal deaths and literal in; She
floated the waves, Second remarkable natural is full of fine, wild
good works laid for general use; the of each belonging to the well
as being composed frequently pages out of a by mistake of by poets
for happening, of St.

Bride's Hymn formal; the sixth century without reality, and
fiction one without gracility of the boy may, perhaps raisings. So
in many ways the freshness individuality was lost beauty in the old
epos.

The first it two stanzas,, Mourning for her child at home, there
just are eight saints swallowed up the winter smaller of In far land
of her captivity' are.

What a picture there of the unusualness period and yearning the poor
human and appropriated their exploits; chasms were the same saints,
and the process in all Sir is similar Discuss Out latest they belong
as to a time when there no one to write such things and. were popular
in form is easy, the style supplied by an question, ready fancy
defect was to be supplie

d
Price 40 cents.

Goldsmith. The Deserted Village, and other Poems. Edited by Edna H. L.
That our Bishops take a humbler title than they have a right to
claim;--that being in fact Archbishops, they are for the most part
content to be styled as one of the brethren!

Ib. p. 185.

I say again, No Church, no Christ; for no body, no head; and if no Christ
then, there is no Christ now.

Baxter here forgets his own mystical regenerated Church. If he mean
this, it is nothing to the argument in question; if not, then he
must assert the monstrous absurdity of, No unregenerate Church, no
Christ.

Price 25
cents.